02.06.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today announced the decision by the National Park Service to award a 10-year concessionaire contract for the Kettle Falls Marina. “Outdoor recreation is part of life in Eastern Washington, and the Kettle Falls Marina has served our community for decades,” said Cathy. “I was proud to advocate directly to the National Park Service in support of a new contract and appreciate them following through. This announcement will provide long-term certainty for the marina and the thousands of people in Northeastern Washington who use it every year.” NOTE: In early 2017, the NPS announced plans to close longstanding services at the Kettle Falls Marina. Shortly after the announcement, on February 8, 2017, Cathy sent a letter to Laura E. Joss, Pacific West Regional Director for the National Park Service, expressing her deep concerns. On March 10, 2017, the NPS announced a one-year extension of services at the marina while evaluating Cathy’s concerns and the future of the marina. # # #
02.01.2019	RULE BILLS **A rule bill is a bill passed through a full House vote under a rule that has been voted and agreed upon by the Rules Committee. Rule bills require a simple majority of the House to pass (218 votes) through a recorded vote. Result and Date Bill # Bill Title My Vote What it means for you and your family 1/30/19 PASSED 259-161 HR 790 Federal Civilian Workforce Pay Raise Fairness Act of 2019 NO Increases pay for federal workers by 2.6 percent, which is equal to the amount active duty military received as part of this year’s Department of Defense Appropriations bill. This would essentially reverse President Trump’s pay freeze instituted last year. However, it also provides a .5 percent increase over what federal workers would have received under current law prior to the pay freeze. SUSPENSION BILLS **A suspension bill is a bill passed by the House through suspending the rules to move quickly, circumventing the House Rules Committee. Suspension bills are typically less controversial pieces of legislation, and as the rules are being suspended, they require a higher threshold, two-thirds of those voting in the House, to pass. Additionally, these bills are often passed by a voice vote, without a formal roll call vote. Result and Date Bill # Bill Title My Vote What it means for you and your family 1/30/19 FAILED 249-163 H. Res. 79 Expressing the sense of the House of Representatives that Government shutdowns are detrimental to the Nation and should not occur NO This resolution does nothing to prevent future shutdowns, and is simply intended to blame Republicans entirely for the shutdown. Additionally, this partisan suspension is being considered right before the conference committee is scheduled to meet and begin negotiations to fund the government and secure the border. It is simply Democrats playing shutdown politics instead of looking for a bipartisan deal. 1/28/19 PASSED 413-3 HR 624 Promoting Transparent Standards for Corporate Insiders Act YES Requires the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to conduct a study evaluating the regulation of insider trading. 1/28/19 PASSED 412-3 HR 502 FIND Trafficking Act YES Requires the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to prepare a report on how virtual currencies and online marketplaces are used to facilitate transactions with respect to sex and drug trafficking. 1/29/19 PASSED 422-3 HR 428 Homeland Security Assessment of Terrorists’ Use of Virtual Currencies Act YES Directs the Department of Homeland Security’s Office of Intelligence and Analysis to assess the threat posed by individuals using virtual currencies to support terrorism. 1/29/19 PASSED 412-12 HR 449 Pathways to Improving Homeland Security at the Local Level Act YES Requires the Department of Homeland Security’s Office for State and Local Law Enforcement to produce and disseminate an annual catalog of training opportunities, programs, and services that are available to state, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies. 1/29/19 PASSED 414-12 HR 769 Counterterrorism Advisory Board Act of 2019 YES Establishes a board within DHS to coordinate and integrate DHS’s intelligence, activities, and policy related to its counterterrorism mission and functions. This board will also advise the DHS Secretary on the issuance of terrorism alerts and meet regularly to discuss intelligence and coordinate ongoing mitigation efforts.
01.25.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. (January 25, 2019) — Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the announcement of a three-week spending bill which is expected to end the ongoing government shutdown. “No one benefits from a shutdown, and by reopening the government we are providing relief to federal workers who have been furloughed or working without pay,” said Cathy. “With that being said, this is only a three-week extension, and both parties need to come together around a compromise to secure our border and provide certainty for DACA recipients. I’m disappointed Democrats continue to obstruct that compromise by refusing to negotiate. This is a priority of the American people and a fundamental responsibility of the federal government.” NOTE: This week, Cathy voted to pay federal workers even as the shutdown continued. Only 13 Democrats voted in favor of that effort. # # #
01.15.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. (January 15, 2019) — Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) joined Rep. Ken Calvert (R-CA), Rep. Jim Costa (D-CA), and Rep. Doug LaMalfa (R-CA) in introducing the FISH (Federally Integrated Species Health) Act, H.R. 548, to consolidate the protection of fish and the regulation of waterways under the Endangered Species Act (ESA) into a single agency. “When multiple federal resource agencies are attempting to manage Endangered Species Act (ESA) recovery, miscommunication and bureaucratic hurdles can stifle progress and make it more difficult to meet our goals,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers.” By consolidating management of ESA salmon recovery within the Department of Fish and Wildlife, and not spreading enforcement authority among numerous federal agencies, we can more effectively recover endangered salmon in the Pacific Northwest and ensure dams and fish can coexist.” “The FISH Act moves us toward a more consolidated and logical management of our endangered species and our rivers,” said Rep. Ken Calvert. “It simply makes no sense to have multiple federal agencies responsible for enforcing the ESA. This unnecessary bureaucratic duplication delays the deployment and operation of critical infrastructure that drives our economy and enhances the natural environment. The FISH Act is a good government approach that will benefit species and all stakeholders affected by the ESA through a unified approach to managing threatened and endangered species. I want to thank the bipartisan group of my colleagues who have cosponsored the bill and join me in supporting this needed change.” “This legislation is a commonsense way to keep the important environmental regulations we need in place while getting rid of the illogical and redundant processes that prevent us from accessing and storing our water wisely,” said Rep. Jim Costa. “Having two different agencies regulating the same species can lead to contradictory or conflicting requirements, which is exactly what happened at Shasta Dam in 2016. The FISH Act should eliminate these types of conflicting requirements and has broad support from water managers across the country, including multiple California water agencies.” “The Endangered Species Act, while certainly a well-intentioned law, hasn’t been updated since its inception in 1973 and is in desperate need of modernization,” said Rep. Doug LaMalfa. “The FISH Act is one way we can do that. By consolidating the ESA under the Fish and Wildlife Service, we’re streamlining the process for those affected by the law while also improving results for protecting endangered fish and wildlife.” NOTE: Currently, both the Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) and the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) have split authority over many of the same waterways under the ESA. This has caused differing – and even contradictory – regulations at times. The FISH Act places the regulatory authority solely within the FWS. # # #
01.15.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. (January 15, 2019) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) was announced as the lead Republican on the Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Consumer Protection and Commerce for the 116th Congress, formerly the Subcommittee on Digital Commerce and Consumer Protection. “From how we communicate to how we get to work to how we pay for food at the grocery store, today technology is part of nearly every aspect of our lives,” said McMorris Rodgers. “As technology, data, privacy, cybersecurity, and other issues continue to dominate the future of our economy, I’m ready to drive the policy discussions about these complex and important topics and find solutions to lead us into the future.” The Consumer Protection and Commerce Subcommittee is at the forefront of issues relating to our 21st Century economy. It has jurisdiction over the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), including interstate and foreign commerce, all trade matters within the jurisdiction of the full committee, data security, consumer protection, motor vehicle safety, and more. # # #
01.03.2019	WASHINGTON, D.C. (January 3, 2019) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after voting no on legislation that failed to secure the border. “For bills to reach the president’s desk in a divided government, both parties must work together to responsibly govern. It’s time to make deals, and the deal to make here is to secure the border, keep Americans safe, and give certainty to DACA recipients. Unfortunately, Democrats signaled today they would rather waste time on bills the Senate won’t consider and the president won’t sign. When this partial shutdown started, I called on Democrats to negotiate in earnest to fund the government and secure our border. These are priorities of the American people and the responsibilities of Congress. Speaker Pelosi pledged today this Congress will be ‘bipartisan and unifying.’ Let’s do it.” # # #
12.20.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (December 20, 2019)— Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), along with U.S. Senators Bill Cassidy, M.D. (R-LA), Patty Murray (D-WA), John Kennedy (R-LA), Maria Cantwell (D-WA), U.S. Representatives Cedric Richmond (D-LA), Steve Scalise (R-LA), Ralph Abraham (R-LA) and Mike Johnson (R-LA), and representatives of Microsoft, the New Orleans Saints, and the ALS Association, applauded the House’s unanimous passage today of bipartisan legislation (S. 2652) to award Spokane native, ALS champion, and former New Orleans Saints star Steve Gleason with the Congressional Gold Medal. The Senate unanimously passed the bill in June, and it now heads to the president’s desk to be signed into law. “Steve, a Spokane native, is a hero to me and to so many of us in Eastern Washington,” said Representative McMorris Rodgers. “As a tireless advocate for those with ALS and other degenerative diseases, Steve has helped usher legislation through Congress to permanently provide access to important speech-generating devices for those who’ve lost their ability to communicate. He has chosen to fight back against ALS, and to undergo this very personal battle in the public eye to bring awareness to this disease and the people who it impacts on a daily basis. This legislation, which is on its way to becoming law, will recognize Steve’s advocacy and determination with one of our nation’s highest honors, the Congressional Gold Medal.” “Through his work to help others who are disabled, Steve Gleason has changed so many lives for the better,” said Senator Cassidy (R-LA). “As more members of Congress heard about Steve’s work, the support for this bill only grew. Steve is a hero to many and I’m proud we got this done to honor a great American.” “The Congressional Gold Medal is reserved for those individuals who make a profound and lasting contribution to our country – and Mr. Gleason has certainly done that,” said Senator Murray (D-WA). “For those of us who’ve followed him from his early days in eastern Washington, to anyone just learning about his story today, we are all so fortunate that Steve brings the same fight and passion to his health care advocacy that he brought to the football field. Steve, you make Washington state so proud, and it’s been my honor to play a role in helping your Congressional Gold Medal come to fruition.” “The lives of countless people have been improved because of Steve’s determination, perseverance, and advocacy. Rather putting up a white flag, Steve used his own devastating diagnosis to inspire a nation and make sure people living with ALS have access to the latest speech-generating technology. It is befitting that Steve’s incredible work be recognized with a Congressional Gold Medal,” said Senator Cantwell (D-WA). “New Orleans Saints fans will always remember Steve Gleason’s seven spectacular seasons with the team. But it has been Steve’s work off the field that truly distinguishes him as an American hero,” said Senator Kennedy (R-LA). “Steve works tirelessly to spread awareness for ALS, all while battling this terrible disease. No one is more deserving of a Congressional Gold Medal than Steve Gleason.” “The Congressional Gold Medal is one of the highest honors for people who have dedicated themselves to improving the lives of others,” said Representative Richmond (D-LA). “Steve Gleason is someone who represents this honor and will now receive this award. I am proud to have worked with my colleagues in both the House and Senate to make this happen. Steve will join in the ranks of fellow American trailblazers and who have changed the course of our history for the better. His enduring commitment to those with disabilities makes him a living legend and forever a Saint. The city of New Orleans and Saints fans alike are proud to have Steve recognized as a leader whose contributions will make a lasting effect for years to come.” “In Louisiana, Steve Gleason inspired all of us as a New Orleans Saint and has continued to inspire us with his bravery and service to others battling ALS. More than 5,000 people each year are diagnosed with ALS, and Steve Gleason serves as a leading voice in championing the fight against ALS. I am pleased to announce that to honor this service, Congress is awarding Steve Gleason a Congressional Gold Medal. More than 350 Members of Congress signed on to support this legislation, a sign of how powerful a mark Steve Gleason has made on this country. Thank you, Steve,” said Representative Scalise (R-LA). “Steve Gleason is such an inspirational man whose work has forever changed the lives of so many people. He is certainly deserving of this tremendous honor, and I’m so proud that members of Congress from across the country recognized the incredible work he has done to help those with neuromuscular diseases and injuries,” said Representative Abraham (R-LA). “I also want to thank Sen. Bill Cassidy for taking charge of this effort and seeing that Steve got this amazing recognition.” “Steve Gleason has not only confronted his diagnosis with bravery and courage, but he has used his voice to help the lives of people all across the nation,” said Representative Johnson (R-LA). “All Americans deserve to have their voice heard, and those with severe disabilities should not be forced to live a life of silence. Steve has worked tirelessly to help provide the resources needed to ensure he, and countless others, can continue living meaningful and productive lives. It is an honor to recognize him with the Congressional Gold Medal for his unwavering resolve and outspoken advocacy on this important issue.” “Steve Gleason is an inspirational leader who has advocated on behalf of those with ALS for access to speech-generating devices. These devices provide people living with ALS who have lost their voices with the critically important means to communicate with health care professionals, loved ones, and their communities,” said ALS Association President and CEO Calaneet Balas. “The ALS Association is honored to support awarding Steve for a Congressional Gold Medal. In addition to recognizing Steve, this award also elevates public awareness of the daily challenges of all those with ALS and the urgency to find treatments and a cure.” “It is a true honor to witness Steve Gleason become the first New Orleanian and former NFL Legend to receive the Congressional Gold Medal,” said Saints Owner Gayle Benson. “Along with his wife, Michel, and everyone at Team Gleason, they have unfailingly confronted ALS with a courageous and unwavering determination. Their tireless work to provide crucial assistance and the latest in technology and services has improved countless people’s quality of living. Steve is leaving a truly indelible mark in American history and we are honored to call him a true New Orleans Saint.” The Stephen Michael Gleason Congressional Gold Medal Act recognizes Gleason for his work through the Gleason Initiative Foundation to provide individuals with neuromuscular diseases or injuries with the assistance they need to thrive, his advocacy for federal legislation ensuring people living with diseases such as ALS have access to speech generating devices, and his leadership in bringing together the single largest coordinated and collaborative ALS research project in the world. NOTE: The Congressional Gold Medal is the highest civilian honor Congress can bestow. Previous recipients of the Congressional Gold Medal include Orville and Wilbur Wright, Thomas Edison, Robert Frost, Bob Hope, Walt Disney, Roberto Clemente, Sir Winston Churchill, John Wayne, the 1980 U.S. Summer Olympic Team, Joe Louis, Jesse Owens, Ruth and Billy Graham, Frank Sinatra, Mother Teresa, Rosa Parks, Jackie Robinson, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Coretta Scott King, Byron Nelson, Arnold Palmer, and Jack Nicklaus. # # #
12.19.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (December 19, 2018) – Today, President Donald Trump signed Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers’s (WA-05) 7th bill into law, her Spurring Business in Communities Act (H.R. 4111). Cathy introduced this legislation alongside Rep. Stephanie Murphy (D-FL) in October of 2017 to help bring more Small Business Investment Companies (SBICs) to Eastern Washington to invest in local businesses. As Cathy said earlier this month, “Small businesses are the backbone of our economy, providing two out of every three new jobs in America and serving as a foundation for our communities. Small Business Investment Companies (SBICs) serve an important function in providing capital and support to these job creators, however, there are currently none here in Washington state. My bipartisan bill, which now heads to the president’s desk to become law, will make it easier for them to form here in Eastern Washington and invest in our community and local small businesses.” Rep. Murphy, ranking member on the House Small Business Committee’s Subcommittee on Contracting and Workforce, added, “As a former businesswoman, I know how important growth capital is to starting and sustaining a successful small business. Securing private capital remains a challenge for too many businesses. I am incredibly proud that our bipartisan legislation to support small businesses and boost private sector job creation is now law.” NOTE: A 2017 Library of Congress study found that SBIC-backed small businesses created 3 million new jobs and supported an additional 6.5 million. According to the Small Business Administration’s most recent report, SBICs reported more than $800 million in financing during the fourth quarter of 2017, and created more than 16,000 jobs. Over the same period, SBICs were able to finance 210 companies across the U.S., including 25 businesses in Low- and Moderate-Income areas, and 12 businesses owned by women, minorities, or veterans. # # #
12.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (December 13, 2018) — Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) and Rep. Dan Newhouse (WA-04) released the following joint statement on Washington Governor Jay Inslee’s proposed $750,000 in the state budget to support evaluation by a state task force of breaching the Lower Snake River dams: “The people of Eastern Washington whose livelihoods depend on these dams should not be collateral damage for anyone’s presidential ambitions. The Governor does not have the authority to breach our federal dams on the Lower Snake River, and allocating state taxpayers’ funds to consider breaching them would be wasteful. Congress has the sole authority to authorize breaching our federal dams, and as representatives of Eastern Washington communities that depend on the many benefits they provide, breaching them is out of the question. We commit to do everything in our power to save our dams.” # # #
12.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (December 12, 2018) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement celebrating the passage of the 2018 Farm Bill Conference Report. “Right now, our farmers need certainty. They need to know that the farm safety net is intact. That’s what this legislation does,” said Cathy. “The final 2018 Farm Bill includes my top three priorities: protecting crop insurance, supporting trade and market access programs, and increasing our commitment to agriculture research, like the great work being done at Washington State University. Our farmers are the greatest anti-poverty program and have done more to provide food security to the world than any government program. I was proud to support this legislation which supports them.” Today, Cathy spoke on the House floor in support of the Farm Bill Conference Report. In case you missed it, you can see her full remarks here: <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> NOTE: At the beginning of the Farm Bill process, Cathy laid out these three priorities to support Eastern Washington’s farmers and agriculture industry through hosting a series of Farm Bill Listening Sessions all throughout Washington’s 5th Congressional District. This summer, Cathy brought Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue and Chairman of the House Agriculture Committee Michael Conaway (R-TX) to again reiterate the importance of these priorities and let them hear directly from Eastern Washington farmers. In November, Cathy was also recognized with the Friend of Farm Bureau award for her leadership on policies that benefit farmers and support agriculture. See more by clicking here. # # #
12.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (December 11, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) supported the Endangered Salmon Predation Prevention Act (S. 3119) in the House to protect endangered salmon on the Columbia and Snake Rivers. This legislation passed the Senate on December 6 and now heads to the president’s desk to be signed into law. “Eastern Washington believes in both supporting clean, renewable hydropower and protecting our endangered salmon, a species so unique to the history of our region,” said Cathy. “Over the past 80 years, we’ve seen steady increases in salmon recovery rates on the Columbia and Snake Rivers, largely due to increased technology and innovation at our dams. This bill is another important step in protecting our endangered salmon. By mitigating sea lion predation we can increase fish recovery without costing Washingtonians hundreds of millions of dollars.” NOTE: In March, Rep. McMorris Rodgers joined Reps. Dan Newhouse (WA-04) and Jaime Herrera Beulter (WA-03) in writing this column to advocate for supporting the Columbia and Snake River dams and finding solutions to increase fish recovery efforts. In case you missed it, you can read the joint column here. Cathy also authored a column in the Walla Walla Union-Bulletin in 2016 which further explains the need for this legislation. In it she says, “In fact, one of the biggest threats to fish are not the dams, but invasive predators. Many coalitions in support of our dams and fish have made serious efforts to remove invasive predators. To assist in their efforts, I support Representative Jaime Herrera Beutler’s (WA-03) legislation, the Endangered Salmon and Fisheries Predation Prevention Act. This legislation removes non-native California seals, which eat salmon as they enter the ocean or when they return to our rivers to spawn.” Read the full column here. # # #
12.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (December 6, 2018) – Today, following a call with Secretary of Transportation Elaine Chao, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) announced the approval of $20 million in new federal infrastructure grants for two projects in Eastern Washington, including $14.3 million for the Geiger Boulevard Project in Spokane County and $5.7 million for the Rural Rail Rehabilitation Project in Whitman, Lincoln, and Spokane Counties. “By investing in Eastern Washington infrastructure, this Republican administration is again demonstrating their commitment to creating jobs and rebuilding our nation’s roads, bridges, and railways,” said Cathy. “These projects are important to our communities, which is why I worked directly with the Department of Transportation to see them approved and fully funded.” “The Administration’s continued investment in infrastructure promises to stimulate economic investment, improve quality of life, and create safe, reliable transportation in our communities,” said U.S. Transportation Secretary Elaine L. Chao. “I am very grateful for the work that our federal delegation has done and especially Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers to secure the award of the BUILD grant for the West Plains PDA,” said Al French, Spokane County Commissioner. “This funding will make more sites shovel ready to support and attract more businesses and more jobs to Spokane.” “This BUILD grant award reflects the strategic importance of this freight rail system to Washington state’s agricultural community and is a recognition of the collaborative partnership between our Congresswoman, Cathy McMorris Rodgers, WSDOT, PCC shippers and other stakeholders,” stated Paul Katovich, CEO, of HighLine Grain Growers, Inc. “We are very pleased that we can now begin to repair portions of these turn-of-the-century rail lines and preserve our rural economies here in Eastern Washington.” NOTE: This round of grants marks more than $85 million in infrastructure funding Cathy has helped secure for Eastern Washington in the last two years, including $9 million in funding for Spokane Valley’s Barker Road Project and more than $57 million in grant funding for Eastern Washington airports. CLICK HERE to read Cathy’s letter of support for the Geiger Boulevard Project. CLICK HERE to read Cathy’s letter of support for the Rural Rail Rehabilitation Project. # # #
12.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (December 6, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers’s (WA-05) Spurring Business in Communities Act (H.R. 4111) passed the United States Senate and will now head to the president’s desk to become law. This legislation passed the House by a voice vote on May 8, 2018, and will help encourage small business development in Eastern Washington. “Small businesses are the backbone of our economy, providing two out of every three new jobs in America and serving as a foundation for our communities,” said Cathy. “Small Business Investment Companies (SBICs) serve an important function in providing capital and support to these job creators, however, there are currently none here in Washington state. My bipartisan bill, which now heads to the president’s desk to become law, will make it easier for them to form here in Eastern Washington and invest in our community and local small businesses.” “I am pleased that the Senate passed H.R. 4111, the Spurring Business in Communities Act, introduced by Rep. McMorris Rodgers. This is common-sense legislation to ensure small businesses’ have access to capital and continue to create jobs for hard-working innovators. Rep. McMorris Rodgers is listening to the needs of Washington small businesses and acting on their behalf. I look forward to seeing H.R. 4111 signed into law so that Small Business Investment Companies can take root in underserved areas across the nation,” said House Committee on Small Business Chairman Steve Chabot (R-OH). This will be Cathy’s 7th bill to be signed into law in the last year. In May, when this legislation passed the House, Cathy gave remarks on the House floor about the importance of bringing SBIC’s to Eastern Washington. In case you missed it, you can watch her remarks here: <span style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" data-mce-type="bookmark" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> NOTE: A 2017 Library of Congress study found that SBIC-backed small businesses created 3 million new jobs and supported an additional 6.5 million. According to the Small Business Administration’s most recent report, SBICs reported more than $800 million in financing during the fourth quarter of 2017, and created more than 16,000 jobs. Over the same period, SBICs were able to finance 210 companies across the U.S., including 25 businesses in Low- and Moderate-Income areas, and 12 businesses owned by women, minorities, or veterans. # # #
12.01.2018	“I will keep America moving forward, always forward, for a better America, for an endless enduring dream and a thousand Points of Light. This is my mission, and I will complete it.” -President George H. W. Bush WASHINGTON, D.C. – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement mourning the passing of former President George H. W. Bush. “A few months after saying a tearful goodbye to a beloved First Lady, our nation mourns again for President George H. W. Bush. “After a decade of Cold War, President Bush was the face of a new era, a stronger era, with America at the helm. We were tasked with being an example to the world that true prosperity can’t be bought with wars or suppression – it comes from freedom and the opportunity to pursue. Passionate, yet graceful, he fought always for ‘a better America, for an endless enduring dream, and a thousand points of light.’ “This is a mindset that President Bush carried with him throughout his presidency. In a grand Rose Garden ceremony 28 years ago, he signed into law the landmark legislation, the Americans with Disabilities Act. This historic bill gave more than 50 million Americans with disabilities, just like my son Cole, the chance to live the American Dream and be defined only by their potential — not their limitations. I will forever be grateful for his leadership. “President Bush had a storied career of service to our country, even when it meant putting personal ambitions on hold. He loved America, but more importantly, he loved his family. The hole in our hearts left by President Bush and his wife Barbara’s passing is filled with the joy of knowing they now walk with our Creator. May God bless the Bush family.” # # #
11.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (November 16, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) voted in favor of the Manage our Wolves Act (H.R. 6784), a bill she was an original cosponsor of, to delist the gray wolf from the Endangered Species Act. “Eastern Washington knows better how to manage our land and wildlife than someone sitting in a cubicle in Washington, D.C.,” said Cathy. “By delisting the gray wolf, we can allow people in our state and community to use science-based management practices that will benefit both our endangered and native animals while protecting farmers and ranchers. I was proud to be an original cosponsor of this bill because it is important to people here in Eastern Washington.” This morning, Cathy spoke on the House floor in support of the Manage our Wolves Act. You can watch her full remarks here: <span style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" data-mce-type="bookmark" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> In her remarks, she said, “In the fall of 2013, the Obama Administration announced that the gray wolf is recovered. President Obama’s Fish and Wildlife Director Dan Ashe stated, ‘[the gray wolf] is no longer endangered or threatened with extinction…as we propose to remove ESA protections, states like Washington and Oregon are managing expanding populations under protective state laws.’ Unfortunately, the gray wolf was not delisted.” NOTE: Earlier this year, Cathy sent a letter to Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke formally requesting the department delist the gray wolf. You can read that letter here. # # #
11.14.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (November 14, 2018) –– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) and Rep. Dan Newhouse (WA-04) issued the following statements after the Bureau of Reclamation (BOR) recently released its FY19 Distribution of Additional Funding that includes $7.1 million to the Columbia Basin Project Ephrata office, allocating up to $2 million for design and oversight to the Odessa Ground Water Replacement Program (OGWRP). “The Odessa Ground Water Replacement Project is critical to ensuring our region has access to the water needed to grow our crops and fuel our economy,” said McMorris Rodgers. “This announcement of $7 million in funding for the Columbia Basin Project, including $2 million for the Odessa aquifer, will help continue to meet our water infrastructure needs. Thank you to the Bureau of Reclamation for their continued commitment to Eastern Washington farmers and our communities at large.” “Every dollar of additional support for the Columbia Basin Project makes a difference for the future of water users facing depletion of the Odessa Aquifer,” said Rep. Newhouse. “The Bureau’s announcement of up to $2 million for the project is very helpful, and I will continue to make the case for the federal government to support this critical investment on behalf of farmers, ranchers, and water users who are counting on a replacement water source.” NOTE: In May, BOR announced nearly $2 million in new funds for the Columbia Basin Project Ephrata/Pasco Pump Lateral and Potholes Supplemental Feed Route, including $750,000 for oversight and design for a pumping plant and pipeline delivery system for the Odessa Ground Water Replacement Program. # # #
11.01.2018	SPOKANE, WA (November 1, 2018) — Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) was named a Friend of Farm Bureau for her leadership on policies that benefit farmers and support agriculture, Eastern Washington’s number one industry. This is the third time Cathy has received this award from the Washington Farm Bureau. “I’m leading to make sure agriculture and trade policies put our farmers in Eastern Washington first,” said McMorris Rodgers. “It’s our farmers here at home who are better off now because this Congress has cut taxes and eliminated harmful, Obama-era regulations. To ensure that they can keep their farms running and provide food security to the world, I will continue to deliver results that Eastern Washington farmers can count on. I’m grateful to be named a Friend of the Farm Bureau again.” “Washington Farm Bureau is proud to award Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers with the American Farm Bureau Friend of Farm Bureau Award for her leadership and support of agriculture during the 115th Congress.” said John Stuhlmiller, Washington Farm Bureau CEO. “Cathy has earned this award multiple times, demonstrating her commitment to American farmers and ranchers. We know she has our backs in D.C.”
10.24.2018	Washington, D.C.– Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after President Trump signed the final version of the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act (H.R.6) into law. It’s the most significant congressional and bipartisan effort against a single drug crisis in history. Language the Congresswoman helped introduce, the Protecting Seniors from Opioid Abuse Act of 2018 (H.R. 5684), was included in this legislation. “This is the most comprehensive action we’ve taken to combat the opioid epidemic. It will bolster treatment and recovery initiatives, improve prevention, protect our communities, and fight synthetic drugs like fentanyl that are coming across our borders from China and Mexico. It also includes language I led on to expand services for seniors who are at-risk for prescription drug abuse. “For families in every district across the country, including in Eastern Washington, this fight is personal. This summer, I shared Kristin’s story. She was a successful, highly competitive swimmer when she was injured. She was prescribed some opioids, and it has led to a heroin addiction, which has led to four stints in rehab, losing custody of her child, and numerous job firings. Her addiction has torn her family apart, and it’s not solved. People battling addiction, like Kristin and her family, need help and hope. That’s why we are united today to deliver real solutions and end this crisis.” Note: Included in the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act was language from Cathy’s Protecting Seniors from Opioid Abuse Act of 2018 (H.R. 5684), which will help with prevention of opioid abuse among seniors by expanding eligibility for Medication Therapy Management (MTM) services for Medicare beneficiaries who are at-risk for prescription drug abuse. Cathy has also worked to share the personal stories of families battling opioid addiction in Eastern Washington. CLICK HERE to read Rachel’s story in Cathy’s column in the Spokesman-Review. CLICK HERE to watch Kristin’s story that Cathy shared in a House Leadership Press Conference.
10.19.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (October 19, 2018) Today, Representatives Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) and Dan Newhouse (WA-04) applauded a Presidential Memorandum that moves up the schedule for the new court-mandated Federal Columbia River Power System (FCRPS) Biological Opinion from 2021 to 2020 while mandating increased collaboration among federal agencies. “I’ve led on legislation to protect the Columbia and Snake River System and encourage widespread collaboration in our region,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Dams and fish coexist, and after more than two decades in the courtroom, we should let scientists, not judges, manage our river systems and get to work to further improve fish recovery efforts. Today, I’m encouraged by President Trump’s action, which also meets those goals.” “While the Senate fails to act on our House-passed legislation to restore the collaborative framework that operates the Columbia and Snake River Power System, I am grateful to President Trump for speeding up this ongoing process,” said Rep. Newhouse. “Moving up the deadline for the EIS is a procedural win that will give more certainty to the communities whose livelihoods depend on effective operations of our dams.” The Federal Columbia River Power System (FCRPS) 2014 BiOp was the product of unprecedented collaboration between President Barack Obama’s administration, states, and sovereign Northwest tribes. The BiOp has helped to produce record fish returns through use of modern, innovative technology, and has widespread support in the region. Unfortunately, a U.S. District judge overturned the BiOp in 2016, throwing out sound science and dictating new river operations from behind the bench—including maximum “spill” levels over the dams. The judge’s anti-science court order has thrown the river system’s operations into disarray and forced uncertainty upon the Bonneville Power Administration’s (BPA) ability to manage the power transmission system. This Congress, the House of Representatives passed two pieces of legislation that would have protected the Snake River Dams and safeguarded low power rates for the people of Central and Eastern Washington. The first bill, H.R. 3144, was introduced by Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) alongside Reps. Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA), Greg Walden (R-OR), and Kurt Schrader (D-OR. It codifies the 2014 BiOp while the EIS can be completed. The House also passed a rider in the Energy and Water Appropriations bill that stops the court mandated spill that has cost ratepayers $38.6 million. Both were stalled by Democrats in the Senate.
09.17.2018	SPOKANE, WA (September 17, 2018) – Last week, the House Energy and Commerce Committee passed the Know the Cost Act of 2018, legislation that Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) joined in introducing earlier this month to ban gag clauses that prohibit pharmacists from informing patients when the cash price for their prescription costs less than their insurance cost-sharing arrangement. “As prescription drugs costs continue to skyrocket, I am leading on solutions to bring transparency to drug pricing,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Patients should have access to this information so they can make informed decisions and help save money. This legislation takes an important step by banning rules that hide valuable information and decrease patient choice.” Many groups have voiced their support of this legislation. The American Medical Association said, “Transparency in the pharmaceutical supply chain is essential to identifying what is driving high prices while also providing critical insights on how to combat practices and policies that are contrary to the interests of patients.” NOTE: Rep. McMorris Rodgers has also led in other areas to help bring down the cost of prescription drugs. Rep. McMorris Rodgers is also an original cosponsor of H.R. 1316, the Prescription Drug Price Transparency Act, a bill to require greater transparency from Pharmacy Benefit Managers (PBMs). PBMs are the middlemen that employers and federal programs use to set prescription drug prices for consumers on their health plans. PBMs often fail to explain the process for setting these prices, and while they claim to deliver cost savings by passing along rebates to federal programs, the lack of transparency surrounding PBMs makes it impossible to track these alleged savings. H.R. 1316 would protect taxpayers and health care consumers by requiring greater transparency from PBMs. # # #
09.16.2018	SPOKANE, WA (September 16, 2018) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after helping secure an extension of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). “As a warrior for human dignity and human value, I will always stand against violence, especially violence for the purpose of oppressing people. My hope is for my daughters and others to live in a world where they are safe from harm and empowered to reach their full potential. “The Violence Against Women Act is critical legislation to provide resources, support, and justice for victims of harassment and assault. For months, I’ve been meeting with women and others from both sides of the aisle to work to extend VAWA, which has enjoyed bipartisan support since its enactment. The VAWA extension through December 7th is a good step as we continue to work for a long term solution. I have called on President Trump to fill the vacant director position of the Department of Justice’s Office on Violence against Women (OVW). This permanent position has been vacant since the Obama administration, and it’s vital that someone is nominated to protect and serve victims of domestic violence.” NOTE: Earlier this year, Rep. McMorris Rodgers sent a letter to President Donald Trump urging him and his administration to move forward in appointing an individual to fill the vacant director position of the Department of Justice’s Office on Violence against Women (OVW). You can read that letter by clicking here. # # #
09.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (September 13, 2018) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed the conference report to the Fiscal Year 2019 Energy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, legislation which funds one-fourth of the government and provides the highest level of discretionary funding for veterans ever. “People in Eastern Washington rightfully expect results, and that’s exactly what we set out to deliver in the Better Way Agenda two years ago. To ensure the red carpet is rolled out for our veterans, this bill provides for the largest dollar amount for the VA in history and funds important programs to ensure veterans receive the care and treatment they need. It also strengthens our national security, supports better infrastructure for our military, and invests in our nuclear technology. For a safer and stronger America, these are the solutions we promised to deliver. As a result, people are Better Off Now. “This marks the first time since 2007 that both Houses of Congress will send multiple appropriations measures to the president’s desk on time. In doing so, I’m pleased that the People’s House took an important step today in meeting one of our most basic duties– to exercise our ‘power of the purse’ responsibly and on schedule. To build trust with the American people, this work must continue.” NOTE: This bill includes $98.1 billion to provide care for our veterans and fund the necessary housing, training, and resources for our military and their families. This is the largest ever discretionary funding level for our veterans. This bill also included language stating that the ongoing increased spill at the Columbia and Snake River dams is not based in science and will threaten the reliability of the federal power system. This language states that increased gas levels will likely harm fish while costing ratepayers an estimated $40 million. The original Rep. Dan Newhouse (WA-04) and McMorris Rodgers amendment would have stopped the additional spill entirely. This was one of three bipartisan proposals to assist salmon recovery and BPA’s increasing costs on the Columbia River this Congress. Each proposal is currently in the Senate. # # #
09.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (September 13, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers’s (WA-05) sixth bill of the year is poised to become law following the passage of the America’s Water Infrastructure Act of 2018, a reauthorization of the Water Resources Development Act (WRDA). This bill included the Congresswoman’s Port of Whitman Economic Expansion Act which would authorize a land transfer between the Port of Whitman and the Army Corps of Engineers. “The America’s Water Infrastructure Act of 2018 will strengthen our nation’s ports, dams, and waterways that drive commerce and support jobs,” said Cathy. “I was proud to support this bill to help tackle the backlog of water projects, reduce long-term costs, streamline burdensome regulations, and improve safety and quality of life for the American people. I’m also proud to see my Port of Whitman Economic Expansion Act included to allow the Port of Whitman County to continue their mission of economic development and business expansion as part of my continued work to deliver results for people here in Eastern Washington.” “There are very limited development possibilities in our region with none currently available in Whitman County on or near the river. The Port of Whitman County would like to explore the possibilities of acquiring the East Unit land from USACE to expand economic development opportunities in western Whitman County. We greatly appreciate Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers work in sponsoring our language in the WRDA bill to start these efforts,” said Joe Poire, Executive Director of the Port of Whitman County NOTE: This bill includes a provision from the Congresswoman’s Hydropower Policy Modernization Act of 2017 (H.R. 3043), which passed the House with bipartisan support in November 2017. The provision, led for years by Cathy, promotes early action, infrastructure, and improvements at non-federal dams. This promotes necessary additions to dams like fish-friendly turbines and critical maintenance. Right now, these improvements must be made within a small window of time to count towards a dams’ new license. With this language included, these improvements can be made outside of that window and count towards the next license. In the past year, Rep. McMorris Rodgers has seen ten of her bills pass the House. This will be her sixth to be signed into law. For more information on all these efforts visit https://mcmorris.house.gov/wins/. # # #
09.10.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (September 10, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) secured important wins for our communities in the Water Resources Development (WRDA) Act Conference Report that was released this evening. “These provisions, including a piece of legislation I introduced to support the Port of Whitman, will make a real difference in our communities and in furthering our investment in Eastern Washington infrastructure,” said McMorris Rodgers. “As the second phase of our infrastructure agenda, the Water Resources Development Act will continue our mission of rebuilding our nation’s dams, ports, and waterways. I’m proud to lead on these provisions and continue my work to get results for people in Eastern Washington.” This bill includes a provision from the Congresswoman’s Hydropower Policy Modernization Act of 2017 (H.R. 3043), which passed the House with bipartisan support in November 2017. The provision, led for years by Cathy, promotes early action, infrastructure, and improvements at non-federal dams. This promotes necessary additions to dams like fish friendly turbines and critical maintenance. Right now, these improvements must be made within a small window of time to count towards a dams’ new license. With this language included, these improvements can be made outside of that window and count towards the next license. “This legislation Is a great victory for ratepayers. With this legislation in place, utilities across the country will be able to more aggressively make early and sustained investments in their hydro facilities, communities and the environment. We greatly appreciate Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers commitment to hydro and for her great work championing this issue in the House.” said Steve Wright, General Manager, Chelan County Public Utility District. Also included in WRDA is the Congresswoman’s bill, the Port of Whitman Economic Expansion Act. This bill would authorize a land transfer between the Port of Whitman and the Army Corps of Engineers. If passed, this will mark the Congresswoman’s sixth bill signed into law this year. NOTE: Policies previously championed by the Congresswoman last Congress were also included in Conference report. This includes the Promoting Hydropower Development at Existing Nonpowered Dams Act (H.R. 2872) which promotes hydropower development at existing nonpowered dams by establishing an expedited licensing process that will result in a final decision on an application in two years or less, and the Promoting Closed-Loop Pumped Storage Hydropower Act (H.R. 2880) to promote closed-loop pumped storage for hydropower development by establishing an expedited licensing process that will result in a final decision on an application in two years or less. You can read the WRDA Conference Report by clicking here. # # #
09.07.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (September 7, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) joined Reps. Buddy Carter (R-GA), Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Peter Welch (D-VT), Debbie Dingell (D-MI), Anna Eshoo (D-CA), Erik Paulsen (R-MN), and Morgan Griffith (R-VA) in introducing the Know the Cost Act of 2018 to ban gag clauses and empower patients in Eastern Washington to make informed decisions about their health care. “All across the country, the cost of prescription drugs continues to skyrocket,” said McMorris Rodgers. “One way we can work to increase patient choice is by making sure they have the information to make the best decisions for themselves and their families. This legislation will ban “gag clauses,” contractual provisions that bar pharmacists from informing patients when the cash price for their prescription costs less than their insurance cost-sharing arrangement. If our pharmacists, health insurance issuers, and PBMs have access to the cost of our prescriptions, so should our patients.” NOTE: Rep. McMorris Rodgers has also led in other areas to help bring down the cost of prescription drugs. Rep. McMorris Rodgers is also an original cosponsor of H.R. 1316, the Prescription Drug Price Transparency Act, a bill to require greater transparency from Pharmacy Benefit Managers (PBMs). PBMs are the middlemen that employers and federal programs use to set prescription drug prices for consumers on their health plans. PBMs often fail to explain the process for setting these prices, and while they claim to deliver cost savings by passing along rebates to federal programs, the lack of transparency surrounding PBMs makes it impossible to track these alleged savings. H.R. 1316 would protect taxpayers and health care consumers by requiring greater transparency from PBMs. # # #
09.05.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (September 5, 2018) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed the Empowering Students through Enhanced Financial Counseling Act (H.R. 1635) to help students with financial counseling and reduce student debt for Eastern Washington students. “I’m very supportive of this legislation for students and their parents who must be empowered to make informed financial decisions as they prepare for college,” said Cathy. “It’s important we are equipped with the information we need before anyone signs up for their first loan or takes on student debt. Rep. Guthrie’s bill, the Empowering Students through Enhanced Financial Counseling Act, will ensure that students have the most up-to-date information and are able to access financial counseling throughout their college career. This will help reduce the possibility of students taking out more loans than they actually may need. When it comes time for our students to graduate, we must make sure student debt isn’t holding them back or keeping them from reaching their full potential.” Following the vote, Cathy took to Facebook Live to share why this bill will help students in Eastern Washington. In case you missed it, watch the video here: <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> # # #
08.06.2018	SPOKANE, WA (August 6, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced plans to reverse course on immeasurable and unreasonable water quality standards. In July, Cathy got her amendment included in the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2019, to restrict funding from being used to implement the EPA’s water quality standard that preempts Washington state law. “Washington state has already adopted some of the most rigorous water quality standards in the country,” said McMorris Rodgers. “These standards apply to 190 pollutants and were established after more than three years of research, outreach, and public feedback. Despite all of that work, the EPA rejected them. That’s why I’m so pleased to see their recent announcement that they will reconsider their decision and allow for Washington’s reasonable and strong water quality standards to move forward.” In support of her amendment in July, Cathy spoke on the House floor as to the adverse impacts of the EPA’s decision on people in Eastern Washington. In her testimony she said, “For example, Spokane, the largest city in my district, invested $340 million in first of its kind water treatment facility. This facility was celebrated and the Republican mayor received an award from the Obama administration on their investment as the ‘model’ for cities to work with residents to meet new environmental standards. The problem? Even this state of the art facility would not be able to meet these immeasurable EPA standards. Spokane Valley, another major city in my district, is facing estimated costs of $1 billion for the municipal and industrial compliance costs because of these rules. This will affect companies like Inland Empire Paper who have been in business since 1911. Right now, the PCB standards that the previous administration imposed will force them to limit their cardboard recycling capabilities and force them to send these products to landfills.” # # #
07.25.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (July 25, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) announced the approval of a $16 million grant from the Department of Transportation (DOT) for the Pullman-Moscow Regional Airport to assist in runway construction costs. “The good news for the Pullman-Moscow Regional Airport keeps on coming,” said McMorris Rodgers. “The team at the airport and in the community are doing all the right things, and that’s why I was proud to help lead in getting this funding approved to get this project across the finish line. Once this project is complete, the Pullman-Moscow Regional Airport will help connect the Palouse, and all of Eastern Washington, with the rest of the country and the world. Thank you to President Trump for investing in Eastern Washington infrastructure.” Learn more about this grant by clicking here. NOTE: This grant funding is part of more than $44 million the Congresswoman has helped secure in the last two years for the Pullman-Moscow Regional Airport and more than $57 million in total grant funding she has helped secure this Congress for Eastern Washington’s airports in general. On May 18, 2017, the Congresswoman announced a $15 million grant for the Pullman-Moscow Regional Airport. You can read about that announcement here. On July 12, 2017, the Congresswoman announced a $5.4 million grant for the Walla Walla Regional Airport. You can read about that announcement here. On August 3, 2017, the Congresswoman announced a $10 million grant for the Pullman-Moscow Regional Airport. You can read about that here. On June 5, 2018, the Congresswoman announced a $8 million grant for the Spokane International Airport and a $3.2 million grant for the Pullman-Moscow Regional Airport. You can read about that announcement here. # # #
07.25.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (July 25, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement regarding President Trump’s announcement of $12 billion in aid funding to help farmers impacted by tariffs. “Farmers want trade, not aid,” said McMorris Rodgers. “That’s why I’m continuing to urge the administration to walk back these tariffs so we can protect and expand markets for our farmers to sell their goods and make a living. In fact, I’m sitting down with Larry Kudlow, White House Economic Advisor, and Peter Navarro, Director of Trade and Industrial Policy, tomorrow to continue to advocate for Eastern Washington farmers and producers in favor of conservative trade policy and open markets.” NOTE: Since March, Cathy has continued to speak out to the administration regarding these across-the-board tariffs. On March 7, she joined in writing a letter to President Trump which said, “We are writing to express deep concern about the prospect of broad, global tariffs on aluminum and steel imports. Because tariffs are taxes that make U.S. businesses less competitive and U.S. consumers poorer, any tariffs that are imposed should be designed to address specific distortions caused by unfair trade practices in a targeted way while minimizing negative consequences on American businesses and consumers.” On March 26, Cathy wrote an op-ed in the Capital Press to again express her opposition to across-the-board tariffs and her support of increased urgency in new trade negotiations. You can read her full column by clicking here. Again on June 11, she wrote a letter alongside representatives and senators from Washington state urging the administration to address tariff retaliation. In it the delegation said, “The impact of these retaliatory actions on Washington’s thriving agricultural industry would not only significantly affect the agricultural industry, but also workers, families, and small businesses throughout the state. We urge the Administration to make it a priority to negotiate a solution that shields our specialty crop growers from retaliatory actions in the form of tariffs or other barriers to trade. With cherry harvest beginning in the Pacific Northwest, time is of the essence for our growers.” Additionally, you can find a snapshot of local coverage of Cathy’s advocacy for smart trade policies here: March 6, Spokesman-Review | Washington delegation takes stances against Trump tariffs March 23, Capital Press | Q&A: Trump trade tactics concern McMorris Rodgers March 27, Walla Walla Union-Bulletin | U.S. Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers addresses farm and trade at town hall April 5, Spokesman-Review | McMorris Rodgers: Trump should listen to Washington wheat farmers on tariffs May 4, Spokesman-Review | Farm groups, fearing a trade war, voice concerns to McMorris Rodgers June 1, Spokesman-Review | Tariff war could hit Washington state apple sales to Mexico June 27, CNBC | GOP House conference chair: Foreign investment update is important, but ‘I’m concerned about trade wars’ # # #
07.23.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (July 23, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the Senate confirmed Robert Wilkie as Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs by a vote of 86 to 9. “Eastern Washington’s veterans deserve the best care imaginable, but for too long, the Department of Veterans Affairs has been an agency that lost sight of its mission to put veterans first,” said Cathy. “In the 21st Century, we need a VA that is going to rethink and reimagine the way we get our veterans the care they have earned. I am confident that Secretary Wilkie will challenge the status quo at the VA and fight for veterans to ensure the red carpet is rolled out for them at the VA.” # # #
07.19.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (July 19, 2018) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed the Interior, Environment, Financial Services, and General Government Appropriations Act, FY2019 (H.R. 6147). “With this legislation, we are continuing to prioritize issues that matter to the American people, like fully funding wildfire suppression and Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT), and repealing burdensome and unreasonable rules like Waters of the United States. Our local communities and their leaders know how to manage our land and resources better than federal bureaucrats, which is why this bill returns local decision-making to Eastern Washington and communities across the country. At the same time, we are keeping communities safe and maintaining our beautiful, abundant public land as a recreational outlet for all walks of life. “In addition, this bill contains important priorities that build on our work to combat the opioid epidemic, rein in federal regulations, and to also keep America safe by strengthening our tools to stop terrorist groups. “As I’ve said before, the People’s House is leading the appropriation process to ensure every dollar is spent wisely and efficiently. That’s why we also took action today to safeguard funding for future generations. For the first time, thanks to a proposal led by of Rep. Tom Graves, we are creating a new Fund for America’s Kids and Grandkids that can only be spent when the budget deficit is erased.” NOTE: This bill includes important priorities for Cathy and wins for Eastern Washington including: $500 million for “Payments In Lieu of Taxes” (PILT) program $3.9 billion for wildland firefighting and prevention programs Repealing the Obama administration’s Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule Delisting the gray wolf and prevents the reintroduction of the grizzly bear An amendment authored by the Congresswoman prohibiting the use of funds for the implementation of Washington State’s preempted water quality standard # # #
07.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (July 11, 2018) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released this statement following President Trump’s pardon of Dwight and Steven Hammond yesterday. “Dwight and Steven Hammond were sentenced to a mandatory minimum jail term that was established for terrorists. Federal Judge Michael Hogan originally sentenced the farmers to three months and I, like many across the country, was shocked when the Hammonds were sentenced to a five-year sentence. That’s why I am pleased to see President Trump pardon the Hammonds so they can return to their families and ranches in Oregon. This is the right decision and is an important acknowledgment as to the way of life in Eastern Washington and rural communities.” # # #
07.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (July 9, 2018) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after President Donald Trump announced Judge Brett Kavanaugh as his nominee to the U.S. Supreme Court. “I applaud and support President Trump’s decision to nominate Judge Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court of the United States. Judge Kavanaugh has devoted his career to public service, and he is certainly qualified for the job. He has a proven record of protecting the rule of law, and I trust that he will faithfully uphold the Constitution that we cherish as citizens of this great nation. I encourage the Senate to quickly confirm Justice Kavanaugh.” # # #
07.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (July 9, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement regarding the announcement by Customs and Border Patrol (CPB) of reduced hours at the Danville Port of Entry (POE) beginning in October. “This border crossing is a vital corridor for people that live in Ferry County to access Grand Forks, British Columbia,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Many in the area cross the border to work, go to church, shop, or access medical services or recreational opportunities on a regular basis. Not only does this Port of Entry provide a way for the people of Grand Forks and Ferry County to come together, it provides necessary economic support for both communities. I’m very concerned about the proposed reduction in hours at the Danville POE because of the negative effect it will have on these communities.” NOTE: Recently, Cathy wrote a letter to CPB requesting more information as to the reasoning for the closure and voicing her concerns and the concerns of many in the Ferry Country community. In case you missed it, you can view that letter by CLICKING HERE. Additionally, Cathy’s staff was present at a local community forum to hear concerns from those in the community about the reduced hours. She wants to continue hearing from people in the community so she can take their concerns directly to the administration. Concerned community members can find all of Cathy’s contact information here. # # #
07.05.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (July 5, 2018) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) is a winner of the inaugural Democracy Awards, the Congressional Management Foundation (CMF)’s distinctive honors program recognizing non-legislative achievement in operations and constituent service by congressional offices and Members of Congress. Rep. McMorris Rodgers has been selected for her outstanding accomplishments in Innovation. This category recognizes offices employing unique or innovative methods in their constituent interactions, communications, or office operations. “It’s the honor of my life to represent the people of Eastern Washington, and I am humbled to receive this award for our work to rethink and reimagine the way I communicate with the people I represent,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Congress is a 19th Century institution using 20th Century technology to try and solve 21st Century problems. That’s not how it should be, which is why I’m leading in innovation to change the way we do business so we can work to build trust and get results for the people we represent.” “As a Democracy Award winner, Rep. McMorris Rodgers’s office is clearly one of the best in Congress,” said Bradford Fitch, President and CEO of the Congressional Management Foundation. “This designation demonstrates that Rep. McMorris Rodgers has made a significant commitment to being the best public servant for her constituents in Washington. Rep. McMorris Rodgers and her staff are to be congratulated for not only being a model for her colleagues in Congress, but for helping to restore trust and faith that our democratic institutions can work,” he said. Cathy is known for encouraging other congressional offices to adopt new technology and communications tools, dating back to her Digital Challenge in 2009. Through the use of Trello, Slack, and other office communication products to improve the way her office does business, to Facebook Live events, Twitter Q&As, MailChimp, and other products to improve the way she communicates with the people she represents, Cathy is leading the way to move Congress into the 21st Century. NOTE: Democracy Award categories include Constituent Service, Innovation, Transparency and Accountability, and the Life in Congress Award for Workplace Environment. CMF developed categories and criteria for the Democracy Awards over the last five years with input from Members of Congress, current and former congressional staff, and the Maxwell School for Public Policy and Citizenship at Syracuse University. Two Members of Congress (a Democrat and Republican) are selected for each award category. Congressional offices nominated themselves for the award and provided supporting documents to CMF. A review committee then conducted more than 70 interviews and evaluated additional supporting material to select 20 finalists. A committee comprised primarily of former Members of Congress and staff selected the winners in a blind review process where the name of the Member was redacted from the review material. All of the winners and finalists will be honored at an awards ceremony in Washington, D.C. on July 13. # # #
07.02.2018	SPOKANE, WA (July 2, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) welcomed the Secretary of Agriculture Sonny Perdue to Eastern Washington to meet with local farmers and hear about the issues impacting the Inland Northwest. The two began their day in Spokane where they welcomed local farmers and agribusiness leaders to the Spokane Club to ask questions and discuss important issues of the day. They talked about the need for trade certainty and growing concerns about tariffs and their impact on farmers, as well as the great forestry work being done on the Colville National Forest and the need to continue working to reduce the regulatory burden on farmers so they can continue to provide food security to the world. After breakfast, Cathy and Secretary Perdue walked across the street to the Spokesman-Review and joined for a podcast interview on many of these issues. You can listen to the full podcast by CLICKING HERE. Next, the two made their way to Colfax where the McGregor Company hosted a town hall style event. Secretary Perdue and Cathy answered questions on trade and international market access, the importance of crop insurance, and advocacy for country of origin labeling standards for meat products. The nearly 100 people in attendance got the chance to hear the Secretary’s vision for the Department of Agriculture and his commitment to working with Cathy to be unapologetic advocates for Eastern Washington farmers. In case you missed it, Cathy shared the event live on Facebook. You can see it here: <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> The two finished their day by touring Washington State University. First, they toured the school’s Plant Growth Facility and met with researchers and students to hear about the research being done on Eastern Washington’s club wheat. Next, they visited the Paul G. Allen School for Global Animal Health where they heard about the important research being done on campus as it relates to animal disease and treatment. Finally, Cathy and Secretary Perdue stopped by Ferdinand’s Ice Cream Shoppe and the WSU School of Food Science. From Cougar Gold to Cosmic Crisp Apples to Ferdinand’s delicious ice cream, they were able to learn more about WSU’s food science programs and research. One of Cathy’s biggest priorities in the farm bill was to protect and increase funding for agricultural research, like the great work being done at Washington State University. That’s why it’s so necessary to be able to show the Secretary firsthand the great things being done in our communities and to tell the story of Eastern Washington agriculture. As the Congresswoman says, “if we don’t tell our story, someone else will.” # # #
06.28.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (June 28, 2018) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed the Department of Defense Appropriations Act of 2019, which provides funding for the Department of Defense. “House Republicans are focused on the American people’s priorities, including keeping our country safe and free. Listening to our servicemen and women at Fairchild Air Force Base in Eastern Washington and around the country, I am reminded of the persistent threats facing our nation and the need to be ready and equipped to address those threats. Today, the House used its power of the purse to ensure that our servicemen and women have the resources they need to get their job done. I urge the Senate to act quickly on this vital funding bill.” NOTE: This legislation also includes important wins for Eastern Washington and Fairchild Air Force Base, including: $195 million for PFOS/PFOA remediation $7 million for PFOS/PFOA exposure assessment Fully funds the 2.6% pay raise for troops, like those serving at Fairchild Air Force Base Funding included for 15 KC-46A tankers, which is important in order for Fairchild to receive the additional squadron of KC-135’s # # #
06.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (June 27, 2018) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement regarding the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act (H.R. 6136). “The Border Security and Immigration Reform Act is consistent with President Trump’s four pillars: strengthen our borders, address chain migration, end the visa lottery program, and fix DACA. While I believe this was our best opportunity to fully fund the President’s border wall, stop families from being separated, and provide a long-term solution for DACA recipients, not a single Democrat came to the table. They prioritized open borders over achieving real reforms to secure the border and fix our broken immigration system. “Regarding the pressing issue of children being separated from their parents at the border: it’s important that we find a permanent fix. That’s why the president called on Congress to act after he signed his executive order that directed the administration to keep families together. I will continue to work with the administration and our Members to develop a solution that addresses the problem in the most practical and appropriate manner, especially in light of yesterday’s court decision.” # # #
06.26.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (June 26, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed a bill she is a cosponsor of, the Endangered Salmon and Fisheries Predation Prevention Act (H.R. 2083). “Eastern Washington believes in both supporting clean, renewable hydropower and protecting our endangered salmon, a species so unique to the history of our region. Over the past 80 years, we’ve seen steady increases in salmon return rates on the Columbia and Snake Rivers, largely due to increased technology and innovation at our dams. This bill is another important step in protecting our endangered salmon. By mitigating sea lion predation we can increase fish recovery without costing Washingtonians hundreds of millions of dollars. I am proud to be a cosponsor of this bill to help advocate for Eastern Washington and protect our fish.” NOTE: In March, Rep. McMorris Rodgers joined Reps. Dan Newhouse (WA-04) and Jaime Herrera Beulter (WA-03) in writing this column to advocate for supporting the Columbia and Snake River dams and finding solutions to increase fish recovery efforts. In case you missed it, you can read the joint column here. Cathy also authored a column in the Walla Walla Union-Bulletin in 2016 which further explains the need for this legislation. In it she says, “In fact, one of the biggest threats to fish are not the dams, but invasive predators. Many coalitions in support of our dams and fish have made serious efforts to remove invasive predators. To assist in their efforts, I support Representative Jaime Herrera Beutler’s (WA-03) legislation, the Endangered Salmon and Fisheries Predation Prevention Act. This legislation removes non-native California seals, which eat salmon as they enter the ocean or when they return to our rivers to spawn.” Read the full column here. # # #
06.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (June 22, 2018) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act (H.R. 6), bipartisan legislation that will help in our overall efforts to combat the opioid crisis by advancing treatment and recovery initiatives, improving prevention, protecting our communities, and bolstering our efforts to fight deadly illicit synthetic drugs like fentanyl. “The American people sent us here, the People’s House, to be their voice,” said McMorris Rodgers. “After listening to people from all walks of life from every corner of this country about the opioid crisis and the devastation it’s caused in their communities, we are leading and acting to combat addiction. Today’s vote on the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act builds on the dozens of bills the House has passed this month to focus on treatment and recovery, prevention, protecting our communities, and fighting fentanyl.” NOTE: Last week, Cathy shared this personal story of one Eastern Washington family’s battle with opioid addiction. <span style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" data-mce-type="bookmark" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> “This is Kristin. She’s from Eastern Washington. She’s struggled with an opioid addiction for the last eight years. She was a successful, highly competitive swimmer when she was injured. She was prescribed some opioids, and it has led to a heroin addiction, which has led to four stints in rehab, losing custody of her kid, and numerous job firings. Her addiction has torn her family apart, and it is not solved. This is a family that’s close to me as well as many in Eastern Washington, as she’s my District Director’s sister. They need help. And they need hope. “For families like Kristin’s, the People’s House is taking more comprehensive steps this week to address this growing opioid crisis all across America. We are focused on increasing our understanding as to how we prevent addiction, protect our communities, and crack down on the foreign shipments of fentanyl from places like Mexico and China.” # # #
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (June 21, 2018) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed the 2018 Farm Bill. “The People’s House just passed the Farm Bill, and that’s good news for farmers across the country. It will give them the certainty and stability they need to stay in business and provide food security to the world. Farmers in Eastern Washington are always top of mind, and this bill protects crop insurance, increases market development abroad, and supports agriculture research, like the great work being done at Washington State University. I heard directly from farmers I represent on these three priorities, and I’m glad to see them move forward today. “The Farm Bill is also an historic effort to empower more people to build a foundation for a better life. That’s what the sensible work requirements for work-capable adults in this bill are all about. Right now, there are more than 6 million jobs open across the country. With more job opportunities ready to be seized in a booming economy, we need to bring more people off the sidelines. The Farm Bill will give them the tools required to find employment and create a brighter future for themselves. Remember, a job really means so much more than a paycheck. It’s what gives us a purpose. On behalf of our farmers and families, I would like to thank Chairman Conway for his leadership on the Farm Bill, and for his commitment to protecting the dignity of work.” # # #
06.21.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (June 21, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after voting against H.R. 4760, also known as the Goodlatte bill. “I’ve said all along that in any bill I wanted to see guaranteed border security funding, strong enforcement measures, and a long-term solution for DACA recipients. This bill did not accomplish these goals. Tomorrow, the House will move forward on a bill that I helped negotiate, the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act. This bill will fully secure the border, stop illegal immigration, close enforcement loopholes, end the threat of amnesty, and provide long-term certainty for DACA recipients. It also contains stronger solutions to keep families together and stop children from being separated from their parents at the border.” NOTE: The Border Security and Immigration Reform Act authorizes and advance appropriates $25 billion for the wall and border security and includes triggers to ensure that these funds are not rescinded or transferred in order for any visas to be issued to DACA recipients under the new merit-based visa category. It more fully responds to President Trump’s call to address the separation of children from their parents at the border by requiring DHS to maintain the care and custody of aliens together with their children while any charge for illegally crossing the border is pending and providing funding for DHS family residential centers. The Border Security and Immigration Reform Act provides a long-term solution to the DACA problem so we don’t have to revisit this again in the near future. The Border Security and Immigration Reform Act more fully delivers on the president’s four pillars for immigration reform (DACA; border wall; chain migration; and visa lottery) than H.R. 4760 does. The bill has a built-in trigger that ensures robust funding for border security before the DACA population is able to compete for the new merit-based visas. The bill specifically requires that advanced appropriations must not have been rescinded or transferred to another account in order for any visas to be issued under the new merit-based category created by the bill. The Border Security and Immigration Reform Act also includes the Department of Homeland Security’s highest priority operational needs as it relates to immigration enforcement, eliminates the visa lottery and two family-based immigration categories in favor of merit-based immigration. The percentage of merit-based immigration to the U.S. each year under the bill would double, from approximately 13 to 26 percent. # # #
06.19.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (June 19, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement on legislation she is working on to fix the issue of family separation at the southern border. “As I said yesterday, I do not believe the government should separate children from parents who are awaiting adjudication for breaking federal immigration law. As Americans, the land of freedom and opportunity, as a people who are warriors for human rights and human dignity, these policies are inconsistent with our nation’s values and everything we stand for. If the administration will not change this policy on their own, then Congress must act to change the underlying law to ensure separation does not happen during the prosecution process. “I support the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act, which after I helped secure further changes today will fix the family separation problem at the border. Specifically, it will require the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to maintain the care and custody of people crossing the border illegally together with their children while any charge for illegal crossing is pending. It will also approve funding through DHS for family residential centers to ensure proper accommodation for these families. Something must be done to stop family separation, which is why I am leading in Congress on this legislation.” NOTE: Yesterday, Rep. McMorris Rodgers released this statement on her opposition to family separation at the border and advocating for reforms to immigration laws and processes to fix a broken immigration system. In case you missed it, you can read her full statement here. It is important to note that currently family separation is not happening among families who are coming to ports of entry and seeking asylum through the asylum process. Reporting to the contrary is false. # # #
06.19.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (June 19, 2018) – Today, the House passed a bill that Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) helped introduce, the Protecting Seniors from Opioid Abuse Act of 2018 (H.R. 5684), as part of the PASS Act of 2018 (H.R. 5773). Following passage, the Congresswoman released the following statement. “The opioid epidemic is wreaking havoc in communities across the country, including here in Eastern Washington,” said McMorris Rodgers. “The American people called on us to act, and that’s what we’re doing. This bill with help with prevention of opioid abuse among seniors by expanding eligibility for Medication Therapy Management (MTM) services for Medicare beneficiaries who are at-risk for prescription drug abuse. Counseling like this has been shown to reduce the risk of addiction in at-risk populations. No one can fight this battle alone — nor should they have to. Addiction knows no race, color, creed, or political party. It works to tear our communities apart, to tear our families apart. We can’t let it any longer.” NOTE: McMorris Rodgers joined Rep. Mike Kelly (R-PA) in introducing the Protecting Seniors from Opioid Abuse Act of 2018 in May of this year. Learn more about this legislation by CLICKING HERE. # # #
06.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (June 18, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement in response to the separation of migrant families at the border. “First, I do not believe the government should separate children from parents who are awaiting adjudication for breaking federal immigration law. As Americans, the land of freedom and opportunity, as a people who are warriors for human rights and human dignity, these policies are inconsistent with our nation’s values and everything we stand for. “I believe that the administration should stop the practice of separating families on their own. However, President Trump has made it clear that Congress must make a formal policy change. Congress can and should fix this by passing a law that clarifies separation shouldn’t happen when families are apprehended illegally crossing the border. That is what I am working with my colleagues in the House right now to do. “Again, I don’t believe in tearing families apart, but I also believe that people need to be coming to America legally, which is why I support increased border security efforts so families aren’t put in this situation. The new Goodlatte bill that I helped negotiate, the Border Security and Immigration Reform Act, will fix this family separation problem and authorize funding for construction of the border wall, close enforcement loopholes, end catch and release, reform the legal immigration system, create a merit-based visa program, and provide the DACA population a bridge to the legal immigration system and earn legal status in our country.” # # #
06.14.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (June 14, 2018) – Last night, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) was honored by Sandy Hook Promise with the 2018 Promise Champions Award for her work in Congress to reduce gun violence and keep schools safe, including helping lead on the passage of the STOP School Violence Act which was signed into law earlier this year. Cathy was presented the award and provided remarks during the 4th Annual Sandy Hook Promise Gala. During her speech, Cathy said, “I start every morning by helping my husband get our kids off to school. Some mornings are pretty hectic and more than once, I’ve had the thought and paused about the possibility that it could be the last time that I see our kids. It shouldn’t be this way. School should be a place of learning where our children make friends, find their talents, and reach their full potential. We must have courageous conversations about what programs and solutions are going to work to keep them safe.” She continued, “In these moments, we need to take that collective step back and just ask, ‘Why?’ That’s exactly what I did in my own community after the school shooting at Freeman, and after we tragically lost too many young people to suicide. We’ve come together as students, school superintendents, principals, and law enforcement officers — and asked the questions, ‘Why?’ ‘What’s causing our young people to feel so lost or alone?’ And worse, what’s causing them to choose violence?’ These questions don’t have easy answers– but as we keep having courageous conversations with one another, I’m hopeful that we’ll continue to have more ideas like Sheriff Rutherford’s STOP School Violence Act that is now law–ideas that will help our local communities prevent, recognize, and respond to violence.” NOTE: In March, Cathy helped get both the STOP School Violence Act and the Fix NICS Act signed into law to provide more resources for schools and law enforcement to keep schools safe and fix the federal background check system to ensure people who shouldn’t have guns aren’t falling through the cracks. # # #
06.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (June 13, 2018) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the Department of Justice’s announcement that it will not defend the constitutionality of the Affordable Care Act provisions to prohibit insurers from discriminating against individuals with pre-existing conditions. “Everyone I have talked to in the House remains in favor of protecting coverage for people with pre-existing conditions. That hasn’t changed,” said McMorris Rodgers. “This is one of the areas in the Affordable Care Act that was widely agreed upon from both Republicans and Democrats. For me, protecting people with pre-existing conditions isn’t just good policy, it’s a personal mission. That’s why I strongly disagree with the Department of Justice’s (DOJ) recent argument of the unconstitutionality of pre-existing conditions protections. I will be following this closely and ready to act if the courts invalidate these protections.” NOTE: In the Spring of 2017, Cathy penned an op-ed in the Washington Post about the need to protect people with pre-existing conditions. You can read her full piece here. # # #
06.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (June 12, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) sent a letter to Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke formally requesting the department both delist the gray wolf from the Endangered Species Act (ESA) and oppose the reintroduction of the grizzly bear into the North Cascades. In the letter, McMorris Rodgers says, “I write this letter expressing my desire that the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) delist the gray wolf from the Endangered Species Act (ESA). At the same time, I write to oppose the reintroduction of the grizzly bear through North Cascades Ecosystem Grizzly Bear Restoration Plan. For too long, the people of Eastern Washington have had to cope with the mismanagement of one apex predator, and the introduction of a second apex predator will only further risk lives and safety. I request that both decisions receive renewed attention and consultation in conjunction with local government officials and residents to find a solution supported by the people of Eastern Washington.” She continued, “Following your trip to Washington State, I have received substantial feedback from local representatives, state and county officials, residents, and business owners opposing reintroducing the Grizzly Bear into the North Cascades…Keeping the gray wolf listed and reintroducing the grizzly bear would have devastating consequences in Eastern Washington. I urge you thoroughly revisit both of these issues and thank you for your consideration.” You can read the Congresswoman’s full letter to Secretary Zinke by CLICKING HERE. # # #
06.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (June 11, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) joined Representative Dave Reichert (WA-08), Chairman of the House Ways and Means Trade Subcommittee, Representative Suzan DelBene (WA-01), Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and a bipartisan group of Members of Congress from Washington State in urging the United States Trade Representative (USTR), Ambassador Robert Lighthizer, to address retaliation by our trading partners in response to the Administration’s placement of tariffs on imports of steel and aluminum. The letter highlights the negative impact these retaliatory actions will have on Washington’s economy and asks Ambassador Lighthizer to negotiate a solution that shields Washington’s exporters. Members of Congress also signing the letter include Senator Patty Murray, Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), Rep. Jamie Herrera Beutler (WA-03), Rep. Dan Newhouse (WA-04), Rep. Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09), and Rep. Denny Heck (WA-10). “As representatives of Washington State, we are hearing increasing concerns from our constituents about the impact of retaliatory actions by our trading partners on Washington communities stemming from the imposition of the Section 232 tariffs on steel and aluminum,” the members wrote. “The impact of these retaliatory actions on Washington’s thriving agricultural industry would not only significantly affect the agricultural industry, but also workers, families, and small businesses throughout the state. We urge the Administration to make it a priority to negotiate a solution that shields our specialty crop growers from retaliatory actions in the form of tariffs or other barriers to trade. With cherry harvest beginning in the Pacific Northwest, time is of the essence for our growers.” To see the letter sent to Ambassador Lighthizer, CLICK HERE. The text of the letter can also be found below. ________ Monday, June 11, 2018 The Honorable Robert Lighthizer United States Trade Representative Office of the U.S. Trade Representative 600 17th St, NW Washington, DC 20508 Dear Ambassador Lighthizer, As representatives of Washington State, we are hearing increasing concerns from our constituents about the impact of retaliatory actions by our trading partners on Washington communities stemming from the imposition of the Section 232 tariffs on steel and aluminum. The impact of these retaliatory actions on Washington’s thriving agricultural industry would not only significantly affect the agricultural industry, but also workers, families, and small businesses throughout the state. We urge the Administration to make it a priority to negotiate a solution that shields our specialty crop growers from retaliatory actions in the form of tariffs or other barriers to trade. With cherry harvest beginning in the Pacific Northwest, time is of the essence for our growers. On April 2nd, China responded to the Section 232 tariffs with a 15 percent tariff on a number of items, including apples, pears, cherries, and wine. For Pacific Northwest cherries, China is the number one export destination, with more than ten percent of last year’s crop valued at approximately $130 million having been shipped to China. Last season, China was the fifth largest market for apples, worth approximately $45-50 million, and it continues to be an important market for pears as well. If these tariffs remain in place, the financial impact to Washington’s growers will be very harmful, especially for cherries as the price would be depressed across the board as shippers seek alternative markets for such significant volume. This challenge is growing as additional trading partners take actions to restrict access to export markets, leaving our exporters with fewer markets for their high-quality agricultural products. On May 28th, India notified the World Trade Organization that it plans before June 21st to raise its tariff on apples from the already very high level of 50 percent to 80 percent. India describes this increased tariff as retaliation for the U.S. Section 232 tariffs on aluminum and steel. In our view, India, like China and other countries, is abusing WTO rules by unilaterally retaliating in this way without authorization, and we urge you to confront such abuses. As the second largest market-to-date this season, an eighty percent tariff on apples entering India would have a grave impact on Washington’s growers. For this season, more than 7.7 million boxes – valued at more than $118.3 million – have been shipped to India. We understand that around one million cartons of apples are currently on container ships en route to India. It is worth noting that this action will have a disproportionately high impact on the growers of Red Delicious – which has composed nearly 90 percent of Washington’s apple exports to India this season. India is the number one market for Washington’s Red Delicious apples this season. With so much at stake, we urge the Administration to make it a priority to prevent this additional thirty percent tariff from going into effect. On June 5th, in response to the Administration’s decision to impose steel and aluminum tariffs on several key allies, including Mexico, Mexico announced it will impose tariffs on a range of U.S. agricultural products, including potatoes and apples. Last year, Washington State potato growers exported over $37 million in frozen potatoes to Mexico. And as the top export destination for apples, valued at approximately $215 million last season, Mexico is currently the second largest market for Washington’s Red Delicious apples. In fact, this season, Washington’s apple growers have shipped over 10 million cartons of apples to Mexico, making up 27 percent of apple exports. As our trading partners take steps to restrict their markets to American exports, we urge the Administration to address these retaliatory actions that are harming our communities, constituencies, and local economies. # # #
06.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (June 8, 2018) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed theEnergy and Water, Legislative Branch, and Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act, 2019 (H.R. 5895), which included one of her provisions to protect the Columbia and Snake River dams and stop court-mandated increased spill over the dams. “As Eastern Washington’s voice in Congress, I continue to be focused on the issues that people care about, and that includes using our ‘power of the purse’ to ensure national security, infrastructure, and other obligations, like caring for our veterans, are properly met. I’m also proud to secure one of my provisions in this bill to protect the Columbia and Snake River dams and ensure dams and fish can coexist. Our river system is the lifeblood of our economy in the Northwest, and this is another way I am working to protect it. We’re leading on the appropriations process and getting a strong start this year. I hope the Senate will follow our lead and do the same.” NOTE: Earlier this year, the Congresswoman got her bill to protect the Columbia and Snake River dams passed in the House to stop additional spill over the dams and move forward with the 2014 Biological Opinion (BiOp). This appropriations legislation is another way the Congresswoman is working to get that effort advanced. Her provision in this legislation would stop court-mandated increased spill and would force the Army Corps of Engineers to operate the river system according to the 2017 fish operations plan which complies with the 2014 BiOp. # # #
06.07.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C (June 7, 2018) — This morning, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) received a call from Mick Mulvaney, Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), announcing news that $500,000 for the Mill Creek Project study has been included in next year’s work plan. “Mill Creek runs through the heart of Walla Walla and is in desperate need of repair,” said McMorris Rodgers. “The first call I made to the Trump administration at the end of 2016 was about this project because it’s critical to the future safety of the community. This project is designed to help protect the community from flooding and this study, which is one of six authorized nationwide, will finally start this process. While we’ve worked hard to maintain the Mill Creek channel, we need to update the channel to ensure we are keeping the community safe into the future. We’ve been working on this for years and as we continue to make investments in Eastern Washington’s infrastructure, I’m thankful the Trump administration acted on my request.” NOTE: OMB Director Mick Mulvaney reiterated to the Congresswoman this morning that her constant communication with the administration ensured the inclusion of the Mill Creek study in the Work Plan. The Mill Creek Flood Control Project is more than 70 years old, and the channel is reaching the end of its design life. The Walla Walla community continues an active and effective maintenance program, but project age is increasing the frequency, scope, and magnitude of repairs. Additionally, recent U.S. Army Corps of Engineers operational changes to the upstream reservoir have resulted in routinely higher flows through the Mill Creek Channel, thus accelerating maintenance requirements. These operational changes add a sense of urgency to the community’s request for the Corps to initiate a General Investigation (GI) Study. This is one of six new start studies that were selected throughout the United States. In December of 2017, Rep. McMorris Rodgers wrote a letter to OMB and the Army Corps of Engineers again urging the inclusion of this study in their work plan. You can read that letter here. # # #
06.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (June 6, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers saw her 10th bill of the year pass the House to continue getting results for Eastern Washington. Cathy offered an amendment to the Water Resources Development Act (H.R. 8) to include her Port of Whitman Economic Expansion Act (H.R. 5742) to authorize a land transfer between the Port and the Army Corps of Engineers. The Water Resources Development Act is the second phase of our infrastructure agenda. In a statement following passage, Cathy said, “I’m proud to say that in this bill we are also getting an important win for the Port of Whitman so they can continue their mission of economic development and business expansion in Whitman County. Our waterways drive commerce and support American jobs. That’s why the Water Resources Development Act is an essential part of the House’s ongoing work to rebuild our nation’s infrastructure. Every community relies on goods and services impacted by water infrastructure, including locks, dams, and harbors. This bipartisan legislation will help tackle the backlog of water projects, reduce long-term costs, streamline processes, and maintain safety and quality for the American people.” Today, the Cathy spoke on the House floor in support of her amendment. You can see her remarks here: <span style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" data-mce-type="bookmark" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> NOTE: Learn more about the Congresswoman’s Port of Whitman Economic Expansion Act here. # # #
06.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (June 6, 2018) – Earlier today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) joined President Trump in the Rose Garden at the White House as he signed the VA MISSION Act into law, legislation to extend the Choice Program for veterans and reform the VA so it is more efficient, effective, and accountable for our nation’s heroes. <span style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" data-mce-type="bookmark" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> “For the nearly 70,000 veterans I represent in Eastern Washington, I’m grateful the VA MISSION Act is now law,” said McMorris Rodgers. “This is a critical step to move the VA closer to a 21st Century health care system that rolls out the red carpet for our veterans. By consolidating the VA’s multiple community care programs and temporarily extending the Choice Program, the VA Mission Act will help ensure our veterans get the care they have earned when they need it. It will also create a non-partisan process for reviewing the VA’s assets and infrastructure to make sure the VA isn’t squandering resources on unused or unnecessary facilities, and instead targets resources on improving care. “Our nation’s heroes must be able to trust that the Department of Veterans Affairs is committed to its sole mission ‘to care for those who have borne the battle.’ This law will certainly help rebuild the trust that’s been broken by a bureaucratic system that has failed our veterans, but there’s more work that must be done. We need a permanent Veterans Affairs Secretary, and I’m urging the Senate to move swiftly to confirm President Trump’s nominee, Robert Wilkie. I’m glad this Administration has made it a priority to provide greater accountability, better management, and improved patient care at the VA. We need to have the right people in place so that this work can continue.” In case you missed it, you can watch the full ceremony here. # # #
06.05.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (June 5, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) announced more than $11 million in funding from the Department of Transportation for the Spokane International ($8 million) and Pullman Regional ($3.2 million) Airports to assist with runway installation and upgrade costs. “I was proud to support the legislation that authorizes this grant funding to help continue to rebuild our nation’s infrastructure,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Eastern Washington airports help connect our region to the rest of the world, providing economic benefit and global access to our communities. Thank you to the Trump administration for their continued commitment to rebuilding our infrastructure so it can serve Eastern Washington and our country into the next generation.” NOTE: The Spokane International Airport will receive more than $8 million to assist with runway guidance signage and installation of the Runway Vertical/Visual Guidance System. The Pullman Regional Airports announced grant funding of $3.2 million will go towards their continued runway realignment project, specifically to fund the Instrument Landing System (ILS) installation. This latest round of funding marks more than $40 million in grant funding that the Congresswoman has helped secure for Eastern Washington’s airports in the last year and a half. Learn more about that other funding here, here, and here. Learn more about these two grants by clicking here: Spokane Grant. Pullman Grant. # # #
05.25.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (May 25, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) sent a letter to Interim Chief of the United States Forest Service Vicki Christensen inviting her to Eastern Washington to visit the Colville National Forest and see the great work being done on the A to Z Project. In the letter the Congresswoman says, “I write today to invite you to Eastern Washington to tour the Colville National Forest (CNF). She continued, “The [Colville National Forest] has become one of the most productive national forests nationwide. In 2018, we are expecting to sell over 150 million board feet of timber (MMBF). It is estimated that every MMBF creates four full time jobs and brings $2 million to the local economy… I worked collaboratively with [a local coalition] to come up with the A to Z concept. A to Z is a forest restoration project on 54,000 acres of forest land on the [Colville National Forest]. This innovative concept allows private funds to be used to meet National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) requirements.” NOTE: The Congresswoman wants the A to Z Project to be a national model for local collaboration and a public-private partnership that benefits the community, industry, and the environment. Read the Congresswoman’s full letter by clicking here. # # #
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (May 24, 2018) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2019 (H.R. 5515). “For far too long we’ve had too many military planes that cannot fly, too many ships that cannot sail, too many soldiers who cannot deploy, while too many threats gather around the world. Under President Trump, we’ve returned to making our military a priority and we’re continuing our work to rebuild and restore readiness. The National Defense Authorization Act will modernize our military equipment, restore our military readiness, and provide a much-deserved pay raise for our troops, like those who serve at Fairchild Air Force Base in Spokane, Washington. As we look to Memorial Day, a reminder of those who have given the ultimate sacrifice, this is a way that we can continue to support and demonstrate our gratitude to those who are serving and to those who have served.” NOTE: The FY19 NDAA contains a 2.6% pay raise for our troops, like those at Fairchild Air Force Base, the largest pay raise in 9 years. # # #
05.24.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (May, 24, 2018) – Today, U.S. Representatives from Washington state Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-03), Dan Newhouse (WA-04), and Dave Reichert (WA-08) issued a joint statement following the U.S. Department of Energy’s announcement that they will not sell off Bonneville Power Administration’s (BPA) assets. “On behalf of the 12 million residents and businesses in the Pacific Northwest who rely on the clean, affordable hydropower generated from BPA, we applaud the Administration for responding to our concerns over the potential sale of BPA’s transmission assets and making the formal decision to abandon such plans. “We have voiced our strong opposition to this proposal and are grateful to Secretary Perry for continuing to study the impact a sell-off would have on our region and recognizing BPA’s unique and vital role in maintaining economic vitality for our Northwest communities. It’s a big relief to know that this harmful proposal will not be pursued.” NOTE: Last year, fifteen Pacific Northwest Members of Congress sent a letter to Secretary Perry and Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney expressing their concern with a proposal in the President’s budget to sell off BPA’s assets. # # #
05.23.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (May 23, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) joined in introducing the Anti-Semitism Awareness Act to combat anti-Semitism at educational institutions by incorporating a workable definition in the Civil Rights Act of 1964. “Anti-Semitism and other hate and discrimination have no place in Eastern Washington and no place in our country. America was founded on the idea of providing safe, welcoming communities where no matter your faith, background, color, or creed, you’re able to live without persecution,” said McMorris Rodgers. “As we see an uptick of anti-Semitic incidents in our communities and at our educational institutions, something must be done to protect Jewish students and their peers. This bill will help protect Jewish students by requiring the Department of Education to follow the definition of anti-Semitism used by the State Department. This will provide the Department of Education necessary clarity to pursue allegations and incidents of anti-Semitism and protect these students and their faith.” # # #
05.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (May 22, 2018) – Reps. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) and Peter DeFazio (OR-4), co-chairs of the bipartisan Northwest Energy Caucus, today applauded the start of formal re-negotiations between the United States and Canada on the Columbia River Treaty, May 29 and 30 in Washington, DC. “The Columbia River Treaty, and the relationship between the U.S. and Canada, plays a critical role in the lives and livelihoods of people here in Eastern Washington and the entire Pacific Northwest,” said McMorris Rodgers. “With Canada officially announcing they will be entering re-negotiations with the U.S., it’s my hope we can update and rebalance the terms of this agreement so it can remain mutually-beneficial into the 21st Century. I’m proud to work with Rep. Peter DeFazio to get the U.S. and Canada to the table to re-negotiate this treaty and work in a bipartisan fashion to build a better future for the Pacific Northwest.” “After working diligently for several years to bring Canada to the negotiating table, I’m pleased that Canada has finally agreed to start these talks, which are of vital importance to the Pacific Northwest,” said Rep. Peter DeFazio. “It is imperative that we ensure that any updated treaty is beneficial for both the United States and Canada, including the end of the “Canadian Entitlement.” I’m hopeful the negotiations are completed quickly and provide a fair agreement for both nations.” NOTE: The Columbia River Treaty, first negotiated in 1964, set up a flood control and power-sharing agreement between the United States and Canada. While the terms laid out in the original treaty provided mutual benefits for both nations, the deal today gives an unfair advantage to Canada, forcing consumers in the Pacific Northwest to pay Canada for downstream power benefits. The treaty is slated to end in 2024. Rep. DeFazio and McMorris Rodgers have fought for years for Canada to renegotiate the treaty and provide an equitable result for the United States. In February of 2016, the two wrote a letter to President Obama in which they said, “The agreement between Canada and the United States serves as a framework for the mutual benefit of both countries, providing low-cost hydropower generation, flood control, and economic growth.” In March of 2016, they met with Canadian Members of Parliament to discuss the need for both the U.S. and Canada to come back to the negotiating table. In October of 2017, DeFazio and McMorris Rodgers wrote to Ambassador David MacNaughton to again urge for re-negotiation. The two have also held numerous meetings and calls with U.S. State Department officials to emphasize the importance of this treaty to the Pacific Northwest. # # #
05.21.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (May 21, 2018) – This morning, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) issued the following statement after President Trump and his administration announced plans to put proposed tariffs on Chinese imports on hold. “I’ve been urging the administration from the beginning to reverse course on tariffs and pursue more targeted approaches that keep farmers and producers in Eastern Washington at the forefront,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Our farmers are already operating on thin margins. At the same time, they are losing access to markets that took years to develop and could take many years to get back. As I meet with farmers here in Eastern Washington, they are worried, and rightfully so. Tariffs could make that situation even worse by risking a trade war, which is why I’m extremely supportive of President Trump’s decision to put these tariffs on hold while they continue to negotiate with the Chinese government. We must hold China accountable, protect our intellectual property, and reduce our trade deficit without putting our farmers at risk.” NOTE: Through meetings with administration officials, letters to President Trump and federal agencies, and local and national media statements, Rep. McMorris Rodgers has continued to encourage the administration to rethink tariffs and pursue different approaches because of their potential impact on Eastern Washington farmers. Earlier this spring, she wrote a column in the Capital Press where she explained her views on trade and her work to fight for Eastern Washington farmers. In case you missed it, you can view her column here. # # #
05.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (May 16, 2018) — Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed the Department of Veterans Affairs Maintaining Internal Systems and Strengthening Integrated Outside Networks “MISSION” Act (S.2372). “We just took another important step to rebuild the VA so it can improve care, restore trust, and roll out the red carpet for our veterans. The VA MISSION Act, which consolidates VA’s multiple community care programs and temporarily extends the Choice Program, will help ensure that our veterans will get the care they have earned when they need it. If veterans are happy with the health care services at their local VA clinic, they should be able to continue seeing their doctors there. But those who have to travel long distances to reach a VA facility or who are facing excessive wait times shouldn’t feel trapped by a system that isn’t meeting their needs. That’s why this bill requires access to community care if the VA does not offer the care or services the veteran needs. “For the nearly 70,000 veterans I represent in Eastern Washington, I’m also grateful the VA MISSION Act will create a non-partisan process for reviewing the VA’s assets and infrastructure to ensure the VA isn’t squandering resources on unused or unneeded facilities and instead targets resources on caring for veterans. Additionally, the VA MISSION Act expands the Post-9/11 Caregivers Program to all generations.” # # #
05.10.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (May 10, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) introduced the Port of Whitman Economic Expansion Act to authorize a land exchange with the federal government to help meet the needs of the port and the community. “The Port of Whitman is the lifeblood of Whitman County,” said McMorris Rodgers. “This legislation will help move a land transfer forward to allow the port to continue their mission of economic development and business expansion. This land transfer will also help meet the needs of fish and wildlife mitigation efforts. The Port of Whitman and businesses associated with it contribute hundreds of millions of dollars in gross regional product every year, and this legislation will help them continue their mission of improving the quality of life for all citizens in Whitman County.” NOTE: This legislation will authorize a transfer of land from the federal government near the Snake River in exchange for transferring port-owned land with habitat mitigation back to the federal government to meet their needs of fish and wildlife mitigation efforts. # # #
05.10.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (May 10, 2017) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today announced the winner of the annual Congressional Art Competition for high school students living in Eastern Washington. First Place: “Appaloosa” by Anna Belanger First place in this year’s competition was awarded to Anna Belanger, a senior from Charles Francis Adams (Clarkston) High School in Clarkston, Washington, for her watercolor piece “Appaloosa.” Anna said about her piece, “I choose to paint an Appaloosa because they are native to the Palouse. To me, they represent the area I was lucky enough to grow up in.” As the winner, Anna’s artwork will be displayed in the United States Capitol Building in Washington, D.C. for the next year. Anna will have the opportunity to fly out to Washington, D.C. to take part in a recognition ceremony and see her artwork displayed in the Capitol Building this summer. Anna is the daughter of Kim and Nick Belanger and her art teacher at Clarkston High School is James York. “I am always so inspired by the talent and creativity of our young people in Eastern Washington,” said McMorris Rodgers. “A special congratulations to Anna Belanger, this year’s winner, and to our three runners-up, Jordyn Hutchens, Rebecca Christine Lawrence, and Kyla Gonzalez. I look forward to meeting Anna when she is in Washington, D.C. for the reception and to seeing her artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol as I walk to the House floor every day.” Runner-Up: “Washington Collage” by Jordyn Hutchens One of the three finalists was Jordyn Hutchens, a freshman home-schooled student from Dayton, Washington, for her photography piece “Washington Collage.” Jordyn is the daughter of Matthew and Jennifer Hutchens. Her art teacher is her mother Jennifer. As runner-up, Jordyn’s piece will be displayed in the Congresswoman’s Spokane office for the next year. Runner-Up: “The Bookkeepers” by Rebecca Christine Lawrence Another of the finalists was Rebecca Christine Lawrence, a senior at Kettle Falls High School in Kettle Falls, Washington, for her watercolor piece “The Bookkeepers.” Rebecca is the daughter of Kara Lawrence. Her art teacher at Kettle Falls High School is Kim Walker. As runner-up, Rebecca’s piece will be displayed in the Congresswoman’s Colville office for the next year. Runner-Up: “Mind Tree” by Kyla Gonzalez The final finalist was Kyla Gonzalez, a Senior at Southeast Area Technical Skills Center in Walla Walla, Washington, for her photography piece “Mind Tree.” Kyla is the daughter of Karene Gonzalez and her art teacher at the Southweast Area Technical Skills Center is Jeffrey Townsend. As a runner-up, Kyla’s piece will be displayed in the Congresswoman’s Walla Walla office for the next year. The Congressional Art Competition is an annual competition for high school students across the United States. Each Congressional office selects one winner to display in the tunnel connecting the Cannon House Office Building to the U.S. Capitol traveled daily by members of Congress, staff, and visitors to Washington, D.C. # # #
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (May 8, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) and Congresswoman Stephanie Murphy (D-FL) released the following statements after the House passed their bipartisan Spurring Business in Communities Act (H.R. 4111) by a unanimous voice vote. “Small Business Investment Companies, or SBICs, play an important role in providing access to capital for startups and other small businesses. The only problem? There are currently none here in Washington state,” said McMorrris Rodgers. “My bill will help change that by making it easier for them to form here in our state, invest in people in our community, grow our local economy, and create jobs. By supporting small businesses, we can help ensure that there are more jobs and opportunities here in Eastern Washington for people to live their American Dream.” “As a former businesswoman, I know how important growth capital is to establishing a thriving small business,” said Murphy. “I am proud to work with Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers to advance this bipartisan legislation, which will boost private sector job creation and make it possible for more small businesses across the country to access the financing needed to grow their enterprises and strengthen our economy.” “For 60 years, the Small Business Investor Alliance has championed policies that enhance domestic investment in growing small businesses,” said Brett Palmer, President of the Small Business Investor Alliance. “We are pleased to support H.R. 4111, the Spurring Business in Communities Act of 2017, which is being considered today by the House of Representatives. With more small business investment, we can expand economic opportunity to more communities across the country.” See the full letter of support here. Today, Cathy spoke on the House floor in support of her legislation. In case you missed it,you can view her full remarks here: <span style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" data-mce-type="bookmark" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> NOTE: A 2017 Library of Congress study found that SBIC-backed small businesses created 3 million new jobs and supported an additional 6.5 million. According to the Small Business Administration’s most recent report, SBICs reported more than $800 million in financing during the fourth quarter of 2017, and created more than 16,000 jobs. Over the same period, SBICs were able to finance 210 companies across the U.S., including 25 businesses in Low- and Moderate-Income areas, and 12 businesses owned by women, minorities, or veterans. # # #
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (May 7, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) and Rep. Dan Newhouse (WA-04) released the following statements after receiving a report from the Bureau of Reclamation (BOR) on its Fiscal Year 2018 additional funding spending program. The BOR report announced nearly $2 million in new funds for the Columbia Basin Project Ephrata/Pasco Pump Lateral and Potholes Supplemental Feed Route, including $750,000 for oversight and design for a pumping plant and pipeline delivery system for the Odessa Ground Water Replacement Program (OGWRP). “With declining aquifers in the Odessa Subarea, this project is critical to providing infrastructure needed to bring water from other areas. The approval of $2 million in funding from the Bureau of Reclamation is critical as $750,000 of these funds will be directed towards the pumping plant design and construction and other oversight efforts,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Agriculture is Washington’s number one industry, and this project will ensure Columbia Basin irrigation districts can provide the water needed to grow our crops and fuel our economy. Thank you to Commissioner Burman and the Bureau of Reclamation for being a partner in this effort.” “I was pleased that the Bureau of Reclamation approved my request to provide additional resources for the Columbia Basin Project,” said Rep. Newhouse. “This new investment is a positive step forward in ensuring that users who depend on the depleting Odessa Aquifer have sufficient water resources. I appreciate the support of elected leaders at the state and local levels who have worked to make this request a priority, and I am grateful for the investment the state and local leaders have made on this project. It was overdue for the federal government to fulfill their partnership in this project, and I commend the Trump Administration for working with me to provide these resources. I will continue to work with the Bureau of Reclamation, stakeholders, and our state and local leaders to keep the Columbia Basin Project moving and supply much-needed water resources to support our Mid-Columbia economy.” # # #
05.08.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (May 8, 2018) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after President Donald Trump announced the United States is ending participating in the Obama administration’s flawed “Iran Nuclear Deal.” “I’ve said all along that the ‘Iran Deal’ is flawed and it doesn’t adequately stop the Iranian regime, the leading state sponsor of terror, from obtaining or developing a nuclear weapon. The President is right–we need a better solution that ensures the safety and security of our nation and of our allies, including Israel. I support the President’s decision to put our interests first and protect America from this bad deal. This is an opportunity for the United States to continue our partnership with our European allies to truly hold Iran accountable for its destabilizing actions. Together, we must apply enhanced pressure on Iran with strong sanctions and robust inspections that will dismantle its extensive nuclear infrastructure.” # # #
05.08.2018	House funding legislation includes language to stop forced spill order; provides support for Yucca Mountain WASHINGTON, D.C. (May 8, 2018) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) and Rep. Dan Newhouse (WA-04) released the following statements on the House Appropriations Committee Subcommittee on Energy and Water’s approval in a subcommittee markup of legislation that would end the current forced spill order by requiring federal funds used to operate the Federal Columbia River Power System hydroelectric dams to do so in a manner that is consistent with the Army Corps of Engineers’ 2017 Fish Operations Plan. “Dams and fish can coexist, and this language in the Energy and Water Development and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill is another avenue for us to stop the spill at the Columbia and Snake River dams,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “We have to get this done to protect our dams, our fish, and ratepayers in the Pacific Northwest. Thank you to Rep. Mike Simpson (R-ID), Chairman of the Energy and Water Appropriations Subcommittee for including this critical provision in the bill.” “This legislation includes language I worked to include to stop the forced spill order at the lower Snake and Columbia River dams,” said Rep. Newhouse. “It also continues congressional efforts to support the Yucca Mountain nuclear waste repository, providing funding for statutorily-required activities to store the nation’s nuclear waste – including waste stored at Hanford. I will continue to push these priorities as well as robust federal investment in Hanford cleanup and Pacific Northwest National Laboratory as the legislation moves to the full committee.” See below for the language approved by the House Appropriations Committee Subcommittee on Energy and Water related to the use of federal funds to operate the Federal Columbia River Power System hydroelectric dams (page 61, line 8): SEC. 506. None of the funds made available in this Act, or federal funds provided from any other source, may be used to operate the Federal Columbia River Power System hydroelectric dams in a manner that is inconsistent with the Army Corps of Engineers’ 2017 Fish Operations Plan. # # #
05.07.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (May 7, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) joined Rep. Mike Kelly (R-PA) in introducing the Protecting Seniors from Opioid Abuse Act of 2018 to help combat the opioid epidemic by expanding eligibility for Medication Therapy Management (MTM) services for Medicare beneficiaries who are at-risk for prescription drug abuse. “The opioid epidemic is wreaking havoc in communities across the country, including here in Eastern Washington,” said McMorris Rodgers. “As I meet with local leaders and providers who are fighting this battle every day, I continue to hear that we need to be doing more, providing more resources and programs to help combat this crisis. No one can fight the cycle of addiction alone, nor should they have to. Expanding access to the Medication Therapy Management services for Medicare beneficiaries who are at-risk for prescription drug abuse will allow them to receive expert advice on how to manage their prescriptions and reduce their risk of addiction and abuse.” NOTE: Medicare currently offers Medication Therapy Management (MTM) programs for beneficiaries with complex health needs. A pharmacist or other health professional will give beneficiaries a comprehensive review of all their medications and talk them through how their medications work, what side effects may occur, if there might be interactions between drugs, and other problems that may occur. This counseling can help reduce the risk of prescription drug abuse through comprehensive medication review, targeted medication review, and interventions with their prescribers. # # #
04.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (April 27, 2018) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 (H.R. 4), which includes three of her amendments to deliver results for Eastern Washington. This legislation authorizes the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) for five years, serving as the first step in President Trump’s infrastructure package and providing needed reforms, long-term stability for the aviation industry, and continued investment in our airports. “Strengthening our roads, bridges, and aviation is critical to support our national security and America’s growing economy,” said McMorris Rodgers. “That’s why I’m continuing to lead on rebuilding our infrastructure and supporting Eastern Washington’s airports. Today’s vote to reauthorize the FAA promotes aviation innovation, supports jobs here at home, and enhances the safety of Americans and their families when they travel. This marks an important step toward advancing President Trump’s infrastructure agenda, and I’m grateful to get important wins included for people here in Eastern Washington.” McMorris Rodgers cosponsored Rep. Barbara Comstock’s amendment to remove what has been dubbed the “poison pill” language that would prohibit the appropriators from funding any of the FAA Environmental R&D funding before fully funding any other R&D programs. This will allow the Washington State University and Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) joint FAA Center of Excellence for Aviation, Biofuels, and the Environment to continue partnering with local businesses like Alaska Airlines, Boeing, and others. “Washington State University is a long-time partner with our state’s aerospace industry and conducts collaborative research to address noise, emissions and produce other innovative technologies,” said Washington State University President Kirk Schulz. “We appreciate the commitment of our state’s congressional delegation to support aviation-based research and development and are grateful to the leadership of Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers on an amendment to protect WSU’s and MIT’s FAA Center of Excellence for Aviation Biofuels and the Environment. Because of this commitment, WSU and its research partners can continue to provide the necessary research to maintain and expand our state’s competitive edge in aerospace.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers also introduced two amendments of her own. Her first amendment, Amendment 175, exempts Airports with more than 25,000 passenger enplanements in calendar year 2014 from any cost-share requirements under the contract tower program. “This language will save Walla Walla Regional Airport approximately $90,000 per year,” said Port of Walla Walla Executive Direct Pat Reay. “We are grateful to Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers for fighting to include the Contract Tower Cost-Share amendment in the massive FAA reauthorization bill,” he continued. “Passage of this critical amendment gives the Port of Walla Walla new flexibility in the ways we are able to invest our limited funds in vital aviation improvements at Walla Walla Regional,” added Reay. Her second amendment, Amendment 176, prohibits the elimination of the Contract Weather Observer program through 2023. Elimination of this program would have resulted in a decline in aviation safety for the more than 3 million passengers that use Spokane International Airport annually. “The acceptance into the Manager’s Amendment of [Rep. McMorris Rodgers’s] proposed amendment to protect the Contract Weather Observation/Observer (CWO) program is critical to maintaining aviation safety at Spokane International Airport, and we very much appreciate [her] efforts to ensure that the CWO program is continued to 2023,” said Larry Krauter, Chief Executive Officer of Spokane International Airport. # # #
04.25.2018	WASHINGTON DC (April 25, 2018) – Today, a bipartisan bill to protect the protect Columbia and Snake River Dams passed the House by a vote of 225 to 189. This effort, introduced by Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) alongside Reps. Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA), Greg Walden (R-OR), and Kurt Schrader (D-OR), will protect the dams by codifying the 2014 Biological Opinion, a collaborative agreement on how to manage the river system to protect fish and support clean, renewable energy. “Dams and fish can coexist, and after more than two decades in the courtroom, let’s let scientists, not judges, manage our river system and get to work to further improve fish recovery efforts,” said McMorris Rodgers. “When the sun doesn’t shine and the wind doesn’t blow, our dams provide critical baseload energy to power homes and businesses all across Eastern Washington and the Pacific Northwest. Not only that, they provide transportation and irrigation benefits for our farmers, flood control for our communities, and recreational opportunities that fuel our economy. This isn’t about the merits of protecting salmon, we all agree on that. This is about providing certainty and letting experts and scientists in the region, who know the river best, work collaboratively to meet that goal. I’m proud to usher this legislation through the House.” Today, Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers spoke on the House floor in support of her legislation. You can see her full remarks here: <span style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" data-mce-type="bookmark" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> “I have heard from countless constituents expressing strong support to defend the clean energy and many economic benefits provided by the dams in Central Washington, which is why I introduced this bipartisan legislation with Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers and Pacific Northwest colleagues,” said Rep. Dan Newhouse (R-WA). “The current Biological Opinion was negotiated with input from a diverse group of local stakeholders and provides a collaborative framework for dam operations that balances energy production with fish recovery efforts. I strongly encourage my colleagues in the U.S. Senate to act to preserve our dams and maintain low energy rates that families rely on in the Mid-Columbia region. I am grateful for the support from my House colleagues on both sides of the aisle in approving this legislation to save our dams on the lower Snake and Columbia Rivers.” “There’s only one sensible way to balance the health of our salmon runs with residents’ need for low-cost, hydropower energy in the Northwest – and that’s to restore a scientifically-backed operations plan,” said Rep. Herrera Beutler (R-WA). “On behalf of our salmon, our Northwest ratepayers, our economy, and our environment, passing H.R. 3144 is vital to ensure that we’re relying on collaboration and science to best manage our river system.” “Our bill finally codifies that science, not politics or the courts, should dictate the best way to balance fish recovery and the power needs in the Pacific Northwest,” said Rep. Schrader (D-OR). “Scientific experts steeped in fish recovery and clean renewable energy will be able to do their job based on good science rather than an ideological crusade to eliminate dams on the river system resulting in the loss of our region’s best carbon free energy asset. Simply put, the Columbia River Power System will be managed according to the 2014 Obama Administration approved biological opinion until a new BiOp can be completed by 2022, saving ratepayers millions of dollars. I am pleased to have worked with Rep. McMorris Rodgers, and our Pacific Northwest colleagues, on this bill to bring science back into the equation for our Oregon and Pacific Northwest Salmon recovery efforts.” “In Oregon and throughout the Pacific Northwest, we are blessed with a river system that allows goods to flow to market and provides renewable hydropower that generates 43% of electricity in our state,” said Rep. Walden (R-OR). “River operations that have been guided by years of research by federal agencies, tribes and other cooperators have now been threatened by court order, and Northwest families and our communities will likely pay the price in higher power rates. This legislation provides needed certainty for power generation and river operations while federal agencies update the biological opinion and court proceedings continue. This is important for our ag communities, renewable energy generation and power users across our region. I was glad to work with my colleague from Oregon, Kurt Schrader, to pass this legislation through the House, and I hope the Senate will act promptly on this bipartisan plan.” “Given how difficult it is to get any legislation approved by Congress, House passage of H.R. 3144 is a momentous accomplishment,” said Terry Flores, executive director of Northwest River Partners. “It’s good news for salmon, which will continue to benefit from protections that are already working; for the environment, because the federal dams generate nearly 90% of the Northwest’s carbon-free, renewable energy; and for families and businesses who need relief from rising power rates resulting from two decades of anti-dam lawsuits,” she said. NOTE: In March of 2017, U.S. District Judge Michael Simon issued a court order requiring federal agencies to increase spill over the Columbia and Snake River dams. This order, which formally began on April 2nd, is expected to cost taxpayers roughly $40 million. Many scientists contend that spill leads to increased dissolved nitrogen and other gases in the water, actually killing fish. Many in opposition to this legislation falsely cite declining salmon returns as the primary reason. In reality, since the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) started tracking fish returns in the 1930’s, fish returns have steadily increased and are at all time highs currently, largely due to increased collaboration and technology, the kind of collaboration the Congresswoman’s bill will continue. Find more information here. This bipartisan legislation was introduced in June of 2017 by Pacific Northwest Reps. Cathy McMorris-Rodgers (WA-05), Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA), Kurt Schrader (D-OR), and Greg Walden (R-OR). Additionally, this legislation has received overwhelming local support with more 20 letters of support from diverse groups and interests including ports, unions, river users, power groups, and other important stakeholders. You can find letters of support here. # # #
04.20.2018	WASHINGTON D.C. (April 20, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) and Rep. Dan Newhouse (WA-04) released the following joint statement applauding the announcement that their bipartisan legislation, H.R. 3144, will go to the floor of the House of Representatives for a full vote next week. H.R. 3144 would protect the Columbia and Snake River dams and ensure dams and fish can coexist by preserving the current Federal Columbia River Power System Biological Opinion (BiOp) until 2022. Additional cosponsors of H.R. 3144 include Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA), Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR), Rep. Kurt Schrader (D-OR), Rep. Mark Amodei (R-NV), Rep. Raul Labrador (R-ID), Rep. Greg Gianforte (R-MT), and Rep. Paul Gosar (R-AZ). H.R. 3144 was approved by a House Natural Resources Committee markup last week with support from both sides of the aisle. “Today’s announcement marks important progress for our bipartisan legislation to safeguard the clean energy benefits provided by our region’s dams,” said Reps. McMorris Rodgers and Newhouse in a joint statement. “Our legislation will keep in place the current collaborative framework that fosters fish recovery efforts while balancing the many economic contributions of our dams. We are grateful to Speaker Paul Ryan and House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy for ensuring that our bill will move forward to receive a vote in the House.” Background: In March of 2017, U.S. District Judge Michael Simon issued a court order that federal agencies increase spill over Columbia and Snake River dams beginning in spring of 2018. Federal agencies have estimated that without action to prevent the order from taking effect, increasing spill will result in an increase of $40 million in costs for ratepayers in 2018 alone. The judge’s order to increase spill went into effect on April 3, 2018. In June of 2017, Pacific Northwest Reps. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA), Kurt Schrader (D-OR), and Greg Walden (R-OR) introduced bipartisan legislation, H.R. 3144, to approve the Federal Columbia River Power System Biological Opinion (BiOp) until 2022. The existing FCRPS BiOp helps ensure that the Pacific Northwest has access to clean, renewable, and affordable energy to power homes, businesses, and communities. The FCRPS BiOp was the product of unprecedented collaboration between President Barack Obama’s administration, states, and sovereign Northwest tribes. The BiOp has helped to produce record fish returns through the use of modern, innovative technology, and has widespread support in the region. Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) has noted $15.28 billion in total spending since 1978 on fish recovery and mitigation in the FCRPS. BPA also reported that average juvenile dam passage survival currently ranges between 92 and 96 percent for yearling Chinook salmon and steelhead smolts at each of the four lower Snake River dams. In response to Judge Simon’s ordering of increased spill over the dams, BPA said consequences could cause “biological, physical and/or structural, and potential adverse consequences for the combined federal power and transmission system.” H.R. 3144 protects the Columbia and Snake River dams and the benefits they bring to the Pacific Northwest region through the clean, renewable, and affordable energy it provides while allowing salmon to recover at record rates. With Judge Simon’s court order looming for ratepayers, Reps. Newhouse, McMorris-Rodgers, and Herrera Beutler responded to a letter from U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) and others opposing H.R. 3144. You can read the full text of the legislation here. In March, Reps. McMorris Rodgers, Newhouse and Herrera Beutler penned a column in the Tri City Herald advocating for the importance of protecting our dams and working collaboratively to recover endangered salmon. In case you missed it, you can read the column here. # # #
04.20.2018	My Votes – Week of April 16th RULE BILLS **A rule bill is a bill passed through a full House vote under a rule that has been voted and agreed upon by the Rules Committee. Rule bills require a simple majority of the House to pass (218 votes) through a recorded vote. Result and Date Bill # Bill Title My Vote What it means for you and your family PASSED 4/17/18 420-1 H.R. 5192 Protecting Children from Identity Theft Act Yes This bill attempts to reduce synthetic ID fraud by requiring the Social Security Administration (SSA) to match the name, Social Security number (SSN), and date of birth submitted by permitted entities against the SSA’s records. This bill will help protect individuals with weak or non-existent credit histories like children who are especially vulnerable to synthetic ID fraud. PASSED 4/18/18 414-3 H.R. 5445 21st Century IRS Act Yes This legislation modernizes the Internal Revenue Service’s information technology (IT) infrastructure, enhances the role of the agency’s Chief Information Officer (CIO), and provides additional tools to protect taxpayer information. These changes will provide more accountability to the IRS, which will ensure that the money the IRS spending on IT produces meaningful results that protect taxpayer information from identity theft and tax refund fraud. PASSED 4/18/18 414-0 H.R. 5444 Taxpayer First Act Yes This bill makes numerous changes to reorganize the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), including creating an independent appeals process so that taxpayers are treated fairly when resolving a dispute; ensuring that taxpayers have access to the same information as the IRS during a dispute; and requiring the IRS to submit a plan to Congress for redesigning the structure of the agency. By shifting the focus of the IRS from an enforcement-first organization to one dedicated to customer service, hardworking taxpayers will receive better service and have more recourse when dealing with a dispute. SUSPENSION BILLS **A suspension bill is a bill passed by the House through suspending the rules to move quickly, circumventing the House Rules Committee. Suspension bills are typically less controversial pieces of legislation, and as the rules are being suspended, they require a higher threshold, two-thirds of those voting in the House, to pass. Additionally, these bills are often passed by a voice vote, without a formal roll call vote. Passage Bill # Bill Title My Vote What it means for you and your family PASSED 4/16/18 383-2 H.R. 146 Eastern Band of Cherokee Historic Lands Reacquisition Act Yes PASSED 4/16/18 384-1 S. 167 National Memorial to Fallen Educators Act Yes PASSED 4/16/18 H.R. 3607 To authorize the Secretary of the Interior to establish fees for medical services provided in units of the National Park system, and for other purposes, as amended Passed by voice PASSED 4/16/18 H.R. 4609 West Fork Fire Station Act of 2017 Passed by voice PASSED 4/16/18 H.R. 3961 Kissimmee River Wild and Scenic River Study Act of 2018 Passed by voice PASSED 4/16/18 H.R. 443 James K. Polk Presidential Home Study Act Passed by voice PASSED 4/17/18 H.R. 4403 Moving Americans Privacy Protection Act Passed by voice PASSED 4/17/18 H.R. 5440 To require notice from the Secretary of the Treasury in the case of any closure of a Taxpayer Assistance Center Passed by voice PASSED 4/17/18 H.R. 5446 To amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to restrict the immediate sale of seized property by the Secretary of the Treasury to perishable goods Passed by voice PASSED 4/17/18 H.R. 5437 To require the Secretary of the Treasury to establish a program for the issuance of identity protection personal identification numbers Passed by voice PASSED 4/17/18 H.R. 5439 To provide for a single point of contact at the Internal Revenue Service for the taxpayers who are victims of tax-related identity theft Passed by voice PASSED 4/17/18 H.R. 5443 To amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to require electronic filing of the annual returns of exempt organizations and provide or making such returns available for public inspection Passed by voice PASSED 4/17/18 H.R. 2901 Volunteer Income Tax Assistance Permanence Act of 2017 Passed by voice PASSED 4/17/18 H.R. 1512 Social Security Child Protection Act of 2018 Passed by voice PASSED 4/18/18 403-3 H.R. 2905 Justice for Victims of IRS Scams and Identity Theft Act of 2018 Yes
04.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (April 19, 2018) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) released the following statement after the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) released the second year of funding for the Opioid State Targeted Response (STR) grants to 57 states and territories totaling $485 million to continue efforts to combat the opioid crisis, including $11,790,256.00 for Washington state. SRT grants were created by the 21st Century Cures Act, which the Congresswoman supported and was signed into law in 2016. “The number one thing I hear from local leaders, who are on the front lines combating the opioid crisis, is that they need more resources to save lives. To support them and address this need, we created the Opioid State Targeted Response grants in the 21st Century Cures Act, which became law in December 2016, for states to increase access to treatment, help people recover, and develop prevention programs. “I’m pleased to see that the Administration today announced its plans to deploy the second round of grant funding under this program. As we work to build on its success, my colleagues and I on the Energy and Commerce Committee share in the commitment to rescue our communities from the deadly hold of addiction. “House Republicans have been leading the charge by taking repeated action to understand and combat this crisis. We have launched investigations, held hearings, worked with experts, and drafted legislation on this front, and our efforts will continue. No state, community, or family can fight this battle alone– nor should they have to.” NOTE: The FY2018 Omnibus appropriated an additional $1 billion to the Opioid State Targeted Response grants. The allocations for that additional funding will be announced in September 2018. # # #
04.17.2018	“Your success as a family… our success as a nation… depends not on what happens inside the White House, but on what happens inside your house.” – Former First Lady Barbara Bush WASHINGTON, D.C. (April 17, 2018) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement mourning the passing of former First Lady Barbara Bush. “The First Lady’s life ended the way she lived it — with grace. To say Mrs. Bush was a beloved First Lady would be to dramatically understate her importance to this country and to a generation of Americans. As America emerged from decades of Cold War, President and Mrs. Bush were symbols of strength, ushering in a new era of prosperity and American leadership. She was witty and feisty, and did tremendous work encouraging young Americans to read — even writing a children’s book of her own. She was a leader in her own right, and as a young woman working in the Washington state legislature during the first Bush presidency, I looked up to her as an example of true class and character. “At a complicated time in our country, we can all learn from Mrs. Bush’s legacy. The love she had for her country was only surpassed by her love for her family. This is an incredible loss for our nation, and my prayers for peace are with her husband, President George H.W. Bush, and the entire Bush family. May God bless you today and always.” # # #
04.17.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (April 17, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) penned an op-ed in the Spokesman-Review and joined CNBC’s Squawk Box to talk about Tax Day 2018, and celebrate that it will be the last time people have to file under the old, broken tax code. On CNBC she said, “What encourages me the most is that it is bringing hope and optimism to this country again. We had seen years of stagnant wages, a stagnant economy, and now people are optimistic again. I was just visiting a company in Spokane, Sonderen Packaging. Their employees are going to get between $70 and $300 in their paycheck increase, but it was the optimism that really inspired me, as you hear people that are more hopeful again. They’re dreaming again. That’s what we want for people.” In case you missed it, you can see her full interview here: <span style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" data-mce-type="bookmark" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> In her column this morning for the Spokesman-Review, Cathy celebrated how this year will be the last time people will have to file under the old, broken tax code. As she said, “It’s the last time you will file under a tax code that works against you rather than for you—a tax code that made it difficult for families and small businesses to get by, let alone get ahead. Next tax day will bring real relief to the annual hassle of filing taxes. The new law is designed to enable people in Eastern Washington to file their taxes in a simple and straightforward way.” You can read Cathy’s full piece here. Find more information about the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act by visiting FairandSimple.GOP. # # #
04.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (April 16, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the Federal Highway Administration issued $12,986,840.00 in grant funding to Eastern Washington counties, including Asotin, Ferry, Lincoln, Spokane, and Stevens. “Last year’s severe weather took a toll on local infrastructure, especially in our rural counties who are already operating on thin budgets,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Entire roadways were washed out, forcing our counties to declare states of emergency. These were disasters, and I’m pleased to see the Trump administration recognize them as such and set money aside to assist counties with costs associated with repairs. This funding is badly needed.” NOTE: From January 30 to April 3, 2017, a series of severe winter storms struck Washington state producing high winds, heavy snowfall, ice accumulation, and extreme rainfall resulting in major flooding, saturated soils, landslides, stream bank and slope erosion, and other emergencies severely damaging local infrastructure. Grant funding totals nearly $39 million, $13 million of which is going to these five counties in Eastern Washington. Following the severe weather last year, Governor Inslee formally requested federal disaster relief. Rep. McMorris Rodgers joined with Senators Murray and Cantwell, and others in the Washington State Delegation, in writing a letter of support for the Governor’s request. In the letter they said, “Throughout Eastern Washington, over 750 roadways suffered severe damage from multiple freeze/thaw sequences and erosion—the most extensive damage to the region’s road network in over 20 years…Consequently, we fully support Governor Inslee’s request for a major disaster declaration for the January-February winter storms (in 2017) that includes Public Assistance and the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program as soon as possible.” Read their full letter of support here. # # #
04.13.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (April 13, 2018) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released this statement following military strikes in Syria by the United States, France, and the United Kingdom. “I support the United States and coalition partners’ strikes in Syria. It’s decisive and deliberate action against the Assad regime’s use of chemical weapons that killed innocent Syrian civilians, including defenseless children. The United States and our allies must stand together on the world stage against Assad’s reign of terror and to protect innocent human life. As we learn more from the White House, I encourage the President—our Commander in Chief—to continue to engage with Congress should he decide to take any further action.” # # #
04.13.2018	My Votes – Week of April 9th RULE BILLS **A rule bill is a bill passed through a full House vote under a rule that has been voted and agreed upon by the Rules Committee. Rule bills require a simple majority of the House to pass (218 votes) through a recorded vote. Result and Date Bill # Bill Title My Vote What it means for you and your family 4/12/18 FAILED 233 – 184 (Constitutional amendments need 2/3 of votes to pass) H.J.Res. 2 Balanced Budget Amendment Yes Families across the country sit down at their kitchen tables every month and make tough decisions to balance their budget so that they can make ends meet. Just like American families, the federal government should spend within its means. A Balanced Budget Amendment, which requires a two-third majority in both chambers of Congress to pass, is a needed and important mechanism to restore fiscal discipline. I’m disappointed that Democrats decided to block this amendment. 4/11/18 PASSED 297 – 121 H.R. 4061 Financial Stability Oversight Council Improvement Act Yes Dodd-Frank authorized the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) to determine if the material financial distress of a nonbank financial company could pose a threat to the financial stability of the United States. If it is deemed a Systemically Important Financial Institution, or SIFI, it becomes subject to heightened supervision and regulation by the Fed. The effects of such a designation are felt directly in Main Street America – for example, American households saving for college and retirement would see their costs rise and investment returns fall if a mutual fund was designated as a SIFI due to the increased costs. This bill reforms this designation process to enhance transparency and procedural fairness; the bill affords affected institutions a greater opportunity to be heard by its regulator, which could, in turn, result in declassifications that would save investors money. 4/11/18 PASSED 245 – 174 H.R. 4293 Stress Test Improvement Act Yes Not only is stress testing expensive to implement and resource intensive, but it has become a process by which the Federal Reserve and bank compliance officers try to outwit one another without rules or transparency. This has resulted in lower rates of return for investors without corresponding benefits or protections. This legislation streamlines the stress testing process to make it less onerous for nonbank financial institutions like investments funds, which will result in better returns for main street investors saving for college or retirement. 4/13/18 PASSED 300 – 104 H.R.4790 Providing for consideration of the bill (H.R. 4790) to amend the Volcker rule to give the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System sole rulemaking authority, to exclude community banks from the requirements of the Volcker rule, and for other purposes, and providing for motions to suspend the rules Yes The Volcker Rule in Dodd-Frank sought to address activities that had nothing to do with the financial crisis, preventing make U.S. bank holding companies from doing certain types of business. This has resulted in increased borrowing costs for businesses, lowered investment returns for households, and reduce overall economic activity. This bill will streamline the Volcker Rule to provide certainty and relief to community banks, like those in Eastern Washington who provide access to capital for our small businesses, home-buyers, and others. SUSPENSION BILLS **A suspension bill is a bill passed by the House through suspending the rules to move quickly, circumventing the House Rules Committee. Suspension bills are typically less controversial pieces of legislation, and as the rules are being suspended, they require a higher threshold, two-thirds of those voting in the House, to pass. Additionally, these bills are often passed by a voice vote, without a formal roll call vote. Passage Bill # Bill Title My Vote What it means for you and your family PASSED 4/10/18 408 – 2 H.R. 2219 End Banking for Human Traffickers Act of 2018 Yes PASSED 4/10/18 409 – 2 H.R. 4203 Combat Online Predators Act Yes PASSED 4/10/18 H.R. 4925 FRA Safety Data Improvement Act Passed by voice PASSED 4/10/18 H.Res. 128 Supporting respect for human rights and encouraging inclusive governance in Ethiopia Passed by voice PASSED 4/10/18 H.R. 4921 STB Information Security Improvement Act Passed by voice
04.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (April 12, 2018) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after H. J. Res. 2, which amends the U.S. Constitution to require that Congress not spend more than it receives in revenue, didn’t garner enough votes to pass the House. “Families across the country sit down at their kitchen tables every month and make tough decisions to balance their budget so that they can make ends meet. Just like American families, the federal government should spend within its means. A Balanced Budget Amendment, which requires a two-third majority in both chambers of Congress to pass, is a needed and important mechanism to restore fiscal discipline. I’m disappointed that today Democrats refused to join us in this effort by blocking Chairman Bob Goodlatte’s (R-VA) amendment from going to the Senate. “Despite their obstruction, House Republicans remain focused on solutions for fiscal responsibility that the American people trust will provide for their economic security. Just this week, the Joint Select Committee on Budget and Appropriations Process Reform met to discuss ways to fix the broken budget process that has protected the status quo of runaway government spending. To build trust and accountability, I will continue to press for solutions that will ensure Congress is exercising its Constitutional ‘power of the purse’ responsibly and effectively.” NOTE: Cathy introduced legislation to restore the “power of the purse” to the American people as outlined in Article I of the Constitution. The Unauthorized Spending Accountability (USA) Act puts all unauthorized programs on a pathway to sunset in 3 years unless they are reauthorized and requires any new authorizations or reauthorizations to include a sunset clause. This means every government program will be routinely scrutinized and updated by the People’s representatives. Visit McMorris.House.Gov/USAact to learn more. # # #
04.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (April 12, 2018) – Today, the House Agriculture Committee introduced the 2018 Farm Bill, important legislation to provide certainty to our farmers and review federal nutrition programs. Following the introduction of the bill, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement. “The American farmer is the greatest anti-poverty program the world has ever seen,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Farmers are hurting though, and I have three priorities for this Farm Bill: to protect crop insurance, to increase market development abroad through trade and market access programs, and to affirm and fund our commitment to agricultural research, like the great work being done at Washington State University in my district. I’m proud to say that all three of these priorities are reflected in this bill and will continue to support Eastern Washington farmers and the food security they provide our country and the world.” McMorris Rodgers hosts Farm Bill and Market Access Town Hall in Walla Walla on Tuesday, March 27 to hear from Eastern Washington farmers NOTE: Cathy has been hosting farm bill listening sessions across Eastern Washington over the past year and beyond, including a Farm Bill and Market Access Town Hall in Walla Walla at the end of March. She continues to hear from farmers about the importance of these three priorities. # # #
04.12.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (April 12, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) joined U.S. Senators Bill Cassidy, M.D. (R-LA), Patty Murray (D-WA), John Kennedy (R-LA), and Maria Cantwell (D-WA), and U.S. Representatives Cedric Richmond (D-LA), and Steve Scalise (R-LA) in introducing bipartisan, bicameral legislation in the Senate (S. 2652) and House to award Washington state native, ALS champion, and former New Orleans Saints star Steve Gleason with the Congressional Gold Medal in recognition of his work through the Gleason Initiative Foundation to provide individuals with neuromuscular diseases or injuries with the assistance they need to thrive, his advocacy for federal legislation ensuring people living with diseases such as ALS have access to speech generating devices, and his leadership in bringing together the single largest coordinated and collaborative ALS research project in the world. “Steve, a Spokane native, is a hero to me and to so many of us in Eastern Washington,” said McMorris Rodgers. “As a tireless advocate for those with ALS and other degenerative diseases, Steve has helped usher legislation through Congress to permanently provide access to important speech-generating devices for those who’ve lost their ability to communicate. He has chosen to fight back against ALS, and to undergo this very personal battle in the public eye to bring awareness to this disease and the people who it impacts on a daily basis. That’s why I’m proud to join in this effort to recognize Steve with the Congressional Gold Medal.” “Steve Gleason was a hero for Saints fans and now he is a hero for all Americans as he finds hope and meaning in overcoming disability and creating greater opportunity for others who are disabled,” said Dr. Cassidy. “Few people make Washington state as proud as Steve Gleason, a Spokane native and WSU standout who not only excelled on the field, but who has gone on to make his biggest impact as a tireless advocate in the health world,” said Sen. Murray. “Together with his wife, mother, and everyone at their foundation, Steve has changed countless lives for the better and this legislation symbolizes the strong support Steve and Team Gleason have in the United States Congress.” “Steve Gleason is not just a beacon of hope in New Orleans, but across the country,” said Rep. Richmond. “His work on the field lifted the hearts of Saints fans, but his work off the field is actually improving lives. Steve is doing remarkable work and is truly an inspiration. Awarding him a Congressional Gold Medal would be the best way to honor him.” “Steve Gleason is a national hero, and I’m proud to help introduce this legislation to award him the Congressional Gold Medal. He was an outstanding athlete. Saints fans will always remember his seven spectacular seasons with the team,” said Sen. Kennedy. “But it has been Steve’s work off the field that has truly distinguished him. Since his diagnosis, Steve has done an incalculable amount of work to spread awareness for ALS. He has been a beacon of hope and has been the definition of courage for all touched by this disease. I can think of no better way to honor him.” “Just like the New Orleans Saints were an inspiration to the city when they returned to the Dome after Hurricane Katrina, Steve Gleason has been a hero in his own right for the city of New Orleans,” said Whip Scalise. “His spirit and determination serve as an inspiration to us all.” “We strongly support the nomination of Steve Gleason for a Congressional Gold Medal,” said ALS Association President and CEO Calaneet Balas. “Steve’s efforts to successfully secure access to speech-generating devices was critical to all those who have ALS. Speech-generating devices aren’t a luxury for people with diseases like ALS – they’re a lifeline. These devices allow people living with ALS to communicate with healthcare professionals, loved ones, and their communities. We encourage Congress to award the Congressional Gold Medal to Steve Gleason – he is a national hero.” “Steve Gleason is so deserving of this honor. He has inspired and challenged all of us to push the boundaries of technology to empower people with disabilities, even as he has waged his own battle against ALS,” said Microsoft President Brad Smith. “Steve is a huge reason we’ve pursued eye control solutions for Windows and wheelchairs, giving people with limited speech and movement independence through technology.” “On behalf of the New Orleans Saints we extend our most sincere support for awarding Steve Gleason with the Congressional Gold Medal,” said Saints Owner Gayle Benson. “Along with his wife, Michel, and everyone at Team Gleason, they are courageously confronting ALS with an unwavering determination, unselfishly providing countless afflicted people with the latest in technology and services. Steve is leaving a truly indelible mark in American history.” The Congressional Gold Medal is the highest civilian honor Congress can bestow. Before a medal is awarded, the legislation must be passed by the House and Senate and signed into law by the president. Previous recipients of the Congressional Gold Medal include Orville and Wilbur Wright, Thomas Edison, Jonas Salk, Irving Berlin, Robert Frost, Bob Hope, Walt Disney, Roberto Clemente, Sir Winston Churchill, John Wayne, the 1980 U.S. Summer Olympic Team, Joe Louis, Jesse Owens, Ruth and Billy Graham, Frank Sinatra, Mother Teresa, Rosa Parks, Jackie Robinson, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Coretta Scott King, Byron Nelson, Arnold Palmer, and Jack Nicklaus. The legislation states in part: The Congress finds the following: (1) Stephen “Steve” Gleason was born March 19, 1977, in Spokane, Washington to Mike and Gail Gleason. (2) Steve attended Gonzaga Preparatory School for high school where he excelled as both a football and baseball player. (3) In 1995, Steve enrolled at Washington State University where he was a 2-sport athlete for the baseball and football teams and helped the Cougars football team advance to the 1997 Rose Bowl. (4) In 2000, Steve signed a professional football contract with the Indianapolis Colts of the National Football League as an undrafted free agent but later joined the New Orleans Saints in November of that same season. (5) Steve would go on to play 7 more seasons as a member of the New Orleans Saints. (6) Steve will always be remembered for his blocked punt on September 25, 2006, against the Atlanta Falcons, the night the Louisiana Superdome reopened for the first time after Hurricane Katrina in a game the Saints would win 23 to 3. (7) In January, 2011 Steve was diagnosed with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis or ALS, considered a terminal neuro-muscular disease. (8) Following his diagnosis, Steve, with the loving support of his wife, Michel, began a mission to show that patients can not only live but thrive after a diagnosis of ALS and established The Gleason Initiative Foundation also known simply as “Team Gleason”. (9) At the time of his diagnosis, however, Steve said there will be “No White Flags”, which has become the mantra of Team Gleason. (10) The Gleason Initiative Foundation helps provide individuals with neuromuscular diseases or injuries with leading edge technology, equipment and services, raises global awareness about ALS to find solutions and an end to the disease, and has helped hundreds of people with ALS experience life adventures they never thought possible after their diagnosis. (11) Steve’s story and mission have been told by the NFL Network, ESPN, HBO, ABC, CBS, CNN, and many local media outlets, as well as in a 2016 documentary titled “Gleason”, which was heralded at the Sundance Film Festival and premiered across the country with Variety calling the production “an emotional powerhouse”. The documentary won several awards, including the 2016 Washington, D.C. Area Film Critics Association Award for Best Documentary. (12) Steve was named 1 of 2 Sports Illustrated’s Inspirations of the Year in 2014, has been a keynote speaker for Microsoft and at 2 UnitedNations sponsored Social Innovation Summits, and received the 2015 George S. Halas Courage Award, given to a NFL player, coach or staff member who overcomes the most adversity to succeed. (13) Steve helped advocate for the Steve Gleason Act of 2015 (Public Law 114–40; 129 Stat. 441), and the Steve Gleason Enduring Voices Act of 2017, H.R. 2465, 115th Congress (2017), which permanently ensures people living with diseases such ALS have access to speech generating devices regardless of their setting, whether at home or a healthcare institution. (14) In 2014, Steve and Team Gleason hosted a global summit to bring together researchers, patients, caregivers, and all ALS stakeholders to create a plan to ultimately end ALS. That summit resulted in the single largest coordinated and collaborative ALS research project in the world, Answer ALS, which brings together nearly two dozen research institutions, 1,000 patients and 20,000,000,000,000 data points that are important to the project and that will define the unknown pathways that will lead to treatments or finally a cure. (15) In 2015, Steve and Microsoft worked together to create a method for people who are completely paralyzed to navigate their power wheelchairs with their eyes. Today, Steve, Microsoft and all wheelchair manufacturers are working collaboratively to make it widely available to all who need this technology. In addition, Microsoft has also made eye tracking technology part of all Windows 10 products across the globe. (16) In 2011, 10 months after his diagnosis, Steve and Michel made their most significant accomplishment, becoming parents to their son Rivers. (17) Steve and Michel Gleason continue to fight to find a solution for ALS so they can share many years together and as parents to Rivers. # # #
04.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (April 11, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) and Congressman Dan Newhouse (WA-04) applauded the House Natural Resources Committee passage of their legislation (H.R. 3144) to protect the Columbia and Snake River dams and ensure dams and fish can coexist. “Hydropower helped build the Northwest, and still today it offers us clean, renewable, reliable, and affordable energy to help power our homes, businesses, and communities,” said McMorris Rodgers. “I’m proud to see this bipartisan legislation pass the House Natural Resources Committee today and look forward to it coming before the full House in the coming weeks. My goal is to ensure that dams and fish can co-exist, and this Biological Opinion provides a collaborative approach so we can continue to improve technology and fish recovery efforts, while supporting the clean energy produced on our dams. I’m proud to lead this effort along with the support of organizations and people all across Eastern Washington.” “Without Snake and Columbia river dams and the many benefits they provide, life in Central Washington as we know it would be unrecognizable,” said Newhouse. “I represent communities that actually live with the consequences of forced increased spill or potentially breaching dams, whether through higher electricity rates, higher transportation costs, reduced access to irrigation water, reduced flood control, and more. I appreciate the support from colleagues on both sides of the aisle for this bipartisan legislation to preserve the benefits of dams that communities in Central Washington depend on. We need to safeguard our dams while continuing to invest in fish recovery efforts because the cost of the alternative is too high for rural communities. I am grateful to Chairman Bishop for his support in committee as this legislation moves forward.” “This is a bipartisan bill with broad local support from citizens in the Pacific Northwest. It removes unnecessary federal barriers to water and power resources while protecting the environment, and I thank Rep. McMorris Rodgers and her colleagues from the region for their ongoing work to move this bill forward,” House Natural Resources Committee Chairman Rob Bishop (R-Utah) said. NOTE: With a commitment from the Speaker of the House, this legislation will now go to the floor of the House of Representatives for a full vote in the coming weeks. In March, McMorris Rodgers, Newhouse and Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-03) penned a column in the Tri-City Herald advocating for the importance of protecting our dams and working collaboratively to recover endangered salmon. In case you missed it, you can read the column here. # # #
04.11.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (April 11, 2018) — Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement: “America stands on the shoulders of the giants who have gone before us because they put country first. That’s what Speaker Ryan has modeled for all of us. “Speaker Ryan didn’t seek this office, this office sought him. Nonetheless, his brilliance and understanding of policies that empower people to reach their full potential led us to advance solutions that improve the lives of all Americans and their families. “Mr. Speaker, thank you for your service in the People’s House and congratulations for all that you have accomplished on behalf of the people of Wisconsin and our entire nation.” # # #
04.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (April 9, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) announced staff-led mobile office hours for April, May, June and July. The Congresswoman has offices in Colville, Spokane, and Walla Walla that are ready to assist people from all over Eastern Washington. Mobile office hours provide people from outside of these areas with the opportunity to connect directly with Congresswoman’s staff without needing to travel. Dates, times, and locations for April, May, June, and July mobile office hours are as follows: Thursday, April 12: Colfax: 9:00 AM-10:30 AM, Whitman County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers, 400 N. Main St Clarkston: 1:00 PM-2:30PM, SEWEDA Office, 845 Port Way Tuesday, April 17: Davenport: 10:00 AM-11:30 AM, Lincoln County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers, 450 Logan St Wednesday, April 25: Pomeroy: 9:00 AM-10:30 AM, Garfield County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers, 789 Main St, Dayton: 2:00 PM-3:30 PM, Port of Columbia Office, 1 Port Way Tuesday, May 15: Colfax: 10:00 AM-11:30 AM, Whitman County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers, 400 N. Main St Clarkston: 2:00 PM-3:30 PM, SEWEDA Office, 845 Port Way Wednesday, May 16: Newport: 10:00 AM-11:30 AM, Pend Oreille County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers Monday, May 21: Republic: 10:00 AM-11:30 AM, Northern Inn, 852 S. Clark Ave Wednesday, May 30: Pomeroy: 10:00 AM-11:30 AM, Garfield County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers, 789 Main St Dayton: 2:00 PM-3:30 PM, Port of Columbia Office, 1 Port Way Tuesday, June 12: Colfax: 9:00 AM-10:30 AM, Whitman County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers, 400 N. Main St Clarkston: 1:00 AM-2:30 PM, SEWEDA Office, 845 Port Way Wednesday, June 27: Pomeroy: 9:00 AM-10:30 AM, Garfield County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers, 789 Main St Dayton: 2:00 PM-3:30 PM, Port of Columbia Office, 1 Port Way Thursday, June 28: Davenport: 10:00 AM-11:30 AM, Lincoln County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers, 450 Logan St Wednesday, July 11: Newport: 10:00 AM-11:30 AM, Pend Oreille County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers, 625 W 4th St Thursday, July 19: Colfax: 10:00 AM-11:30 AM, Whitman County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers, 400 N. Main St Clarkston: 2:00 PM-3:30 PM, SEWEDA Office, 845 Port Way Monday, July 23: Republic: 10:00 AM-11:30 AM, Northern Inn, 852 S. Clark Ave Wednesday, July 25: Pomeroy: 10:00 AM-11:30 AM, Garfield County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers, 789 Main St Dayton: 2:00 PM-3:30 PM, Port of Columbia Office, 1 Port Way Staff will be on hand to answer any questions and field concerns about federal issues from anyone who wishes to come by, no appointment necessary. As always, folks are welcome to contact any of the three main offices in Eastern Washington. That contact information is below: Colville Office: 555 South Main Street, Colville, WA 99114 Phone: 509-684-3481 Spokane Office: 10 North Post Street, Suite 625, Spokane, WA 99201 Phone: 509-353-2374 Walla Walla Office: 26 E. Main Street, Suite 2, Walla Walla, WA 99362 Phone: 509-529-9358 # # #
04.05.2018	SPOKANE, WA (April 5, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) announced the approval of a $1.37 million grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation to the Spokane Transit Authority for the implementation of the Spokane Central City Line, further connecting the city of Spokane and providing reliable public transportation routes for residents. “This is great news for everyone in Spokane. Not only will this grant help provide quality public transportation services to people in our community, but this project is expected to generate more than $175 million in economic impact here in Spokane,” said McMorris Rodgers. “I was proud to work with Senators Murray and Cantwell to advocate for the approval of this grant and am so pleased to see our work paying off.” In October, Rep. McMorris Rodgers joined Washington Senators Patty Murray and Maria Cantwell in writing a letter to the Federal Transit Administration urging the approval of the grant. In the letter they said, “The Spokane Central Line would link important employment and education centers with surrounding neighborhoods. The corridor encompasses 17 percent of the regional employment, six institutions of higher education with 27,000 students, thousands of residents, and major recreational and cultural attractions. Spokane is expected to grow by nearly 165,000 residents and 68,000 new jobs by 2040. The Spokane Central City Line would enhance Spokane Transit Authority’s ability to support this significant growth and provide efficient public transportation for residents and businesses.” NOTE: Read their full letter here, and find more information about the grant here. # # #
04.02.2018	SPOKANE, WA (April 2, 2018) – Today, following the 9th Circuit Court ruling to continue with plan to increase spill over the Columbia and Snake River Dams, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) announced that her bipartisan bill to protect the dams would be coming up for a vote in the U.S. House of Representatives in the coming weeks. “Hydropower helped build the Northwest, and still today it offers us clean, renewable, reliable, and affordable energy to help power our homes, businesses, and communities. I’m proud to announce that my bipartisan legislation to protect our dams will come before the House of Representatives in the coming weeks to be voted on and sent to the Senate. My goal is to ensure that dams and fish can co-exist, and this Biological Opinion provides a collaborative approach so we can continue to improve technology and fish recovery efforts, while supporting the clean energy produced on our dams. I’m proud to lead this effort along with the support of organizations and people all across Eastern Washington.” SUPPORT FOR MCMORRIS RODGERS’S Bill CONTINUES: “I am writing on behalf of the United Power Trades Organization (UPTO) to express our support for H.R. 3144 which requires federal agencies to manage the Federal Columbia River Power System (FCRPS) in accordance with the 2014 Supplemental Biological Opinion (Bi-Op)…Contrary to misinformation that has been widely reported, spilling water over the dams has not been the primary reason for increases in fish survival through the Columbia-Snake River system. There have been many reasons that fish survival has improved including habitat restoration, better oceanic conditions and summer flow augmentation. But a major reason for improved fish survival is the transportation program.” — United Power Trades Organization (UPTO). Read their full letter of support here. “Again, we implore you to support H.R. 3144 to help protect ESA-listed salmon by keeping in place measures we know are working, not experiments, while allowing a thoughtful, deliberative NEPA process to generate credible information about a full range of potential dam operations and salmon-management strategies for the future. H.R. 3144, contrary to critics’ statements, would not halt or undermine additional “learning” about the system’s impacts on salmon or prevent a constructive conversation among agencies, tribes and other stakeholders. The bill will simply allow for a much-needed “time out” from over 20 years of litigation and allow the federal agencies to focus their limited resources on conducting the best NEPA process possible to comply with the court’s order.” — Northwest River Partners. Read their full letter of support here. “Since 1978, BPA has committed nearly $15.9 billion to support Northwest fish and wildlife recovery. BPA’s fish and wildlife mitigation program is the largest in the nation, and quite possibly the world…Specifically, BPA has made long-term investments in large-scale structural and operational changes to further improve existing fish passage routes as well as to provide new, safe passage structures to these dams… Therefore, by upholding the 2014 Supplemental Biological Opinion, H.R. 3144 appropriately balances environment and economic demands while also protecting existing hydropower resources in the Pacific Northwest.” — National Rural Electric Cooperatives Association. Read their full letter of support here. “We would like to express our support for H.R. 3144, which would keep the current river plan in place while the federal agencies move through the NEPA process and prepare a new plan for the court by 2021…As you are well aware, the Port of Whitman County Commission has fought long and hard for many years to preserve the Columbia-Snake River System. Many of our local constituents rely on the river to transport their wheat and other farm commodities to market. Thank you for throwing a spotlight on all the good work that has occurred regionally and in Washington, DC, and for your unfailing support for the ongoing efforts to preserve a multi-use river system for the benefit of Washington State and our nation.” — Port of Whitman County Commission. Read their full letter of support here. “Thank you very much for your leadership on HR 3144, to provide for operations of the Federal Columbia River Power System pursuant to a certain operation plan for a specified period, and for other purposes, October 12, 2017. We so much appreciate your understanding that the 365-mile Columbia Snake River navigation channel is the water highway to our community. Without this transportation corridor, transporting wheat grown here to foreign markets would be significantly costlier—both in dollars and carbon emissions. Causing our roadways to be less safe and it would prevent cruise boats from making their contributions to communities up and down the river. Here at the Port of Clarkston, we calculate the positive economic benefit for just the Lewis-Clark Valley to be $3,000,000 annually. On the entire system, the economic benefit likely exceeds $15,000,000 annually.” — Port of Clarkston. Read their full letter of support here. NOTE: Today, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals upheld the lower court ruling that mandated increased spill along the Columbia and Snake River System, and action expected to cost Washington state ratepayers $40 million dollars in increased electricity rates. Find more information about the Congresswoman’s bipartisan legislation here. # # #
03.26.2018	SPOKANE, WA (March 26, 2018) – Last week, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) wrote this column in the Capital Press addressing current trade issues and her work to ensure Eastern Washington’s farmers are at the forefront of trade policies. You can read the Congresswoman’s full column below. Additionally, Rep. McMorris Rodgers will host an open forum tomorrow to hear from farmers and others on their priorities for the upcoming Farm Bill and their thoughts on trade. Details are as follows: Tuesday, March 27, 2018 Farm Bill and Market Access Town Hall When: 8:00 AM to 9:00 AM Where: Walla Walla Airport Conference Room, 45 Terminal Loop, Walla Walla, WA 99362 **Space is limited. This event is first come, first served** This event is open to press, questions can be directed to Jared.Powell@mail.house.gov. Farmers should be at the forefront of trade policies | Capital Press, March 19, 2018 We’ve made a lot of progress over the last year, from reducing burdensome regulations to enacting tax reform that allows immediate expensing of equipment, raises the threshold for the estate tax, and lowers overall rates. We continue to make progress restoring our nation’s infrastructure, including protecting our dams and the benefits they provide. I stand by the vision of President Trump’s economic agenda, and will continue to work with him and his administration to grow our economy, create jobs, and support our farmers. That being said, it’s essential that we do more to prioritize trade agreements and pursue smart trade policies that allow people here in Eastern Washington to access the worldwide marketplace. Washington is the most trade-dependent state in the country, and especially here in Eastern Washington, we rely on free trade and market access every day to sell our crops all over the world. Nearly 90 percent of our wheat goes overseas, as does 50 percent of our potatoes. In fact, 95 percent of the world’s customers live outside the U.S. I was concerned when President Trump pulled out of the Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP). While the TPP wasn’t perfect, I felt that remaining at the negotiating table was the best way to ensure that the United States was writing the rules for global trade, not China. What’s more, leaving NAFTA, KORUS, or other trade agreements — as the president at times has signaled — could put considerable strains on Eastern Washington’s economy. I am worried that the continued slow pace of negotiating new trade deals will limit opportunities in new markets and will leave farmers in Eastern Washington behind. All over the world, you see countries negotiating trade deals with each other, leaving the United States in the dust. Europe and Japan, Canada and China, the list goes on and on. We are losing markets that took years to develop, and could take many years to get back. Every time I meet with farmers here in Eastern Washington, trade is the number one concern I hear. They are worried, and rightfully so. Other countries put up trade barriers that must be addressed through trade deals or we put our farmers at a disadvantage. Retreat from the international marketplace is not the best direction for our farm economy and I will continue to make my concerns known. We need to increase opportunities abroad that help decrease our trade deficit. In Congress, we are currently working to reauthorize the Farm Bill. One of my priorities is to adequately fund the Market Access and Foreign Market Development programs, which increases trading opportunities abroad, has returned $28 for every $1 spent, and has increased farm income by $2.1 billion between 2002 and 2014. I am also urging President Trump to reverse course on the recently announced tariffs on steel and aluminum and instead work towards a targeted approach which would lessen the negative impact on our trade relationships and our economy. Recently, I joined more than 100 of my colleagues here in the House in writing a letter to the president making him aware of our concerns and encouraging him to pursue a more strategic, focused approach. It’s true that there are bad actors in the world, and while I understand the intent behind President Trump’s tariffs, to hold China accountable for dumping steel and aluminum into our economy, we must have an approach that doesn’t alienate allies and risk a trade war. The American farmer has been at the forefront of all of our modern trade deals, and I’d like to see us pursue new trade opportunities with India, the Philippines, Malaysia, and other Asian nations. I also believe that while we shouldn’t be pulling out of NAFTA, there is a need to modernize this agreement to ensure it remains beneficial for us and our farmers and keeps up with the realities of the 21st Century economy. Farmers and manufacturers in Eastern Washington have, and will continue to have, a champion for fair trade as I urge the administration to walk back tariffs, stop threats, and move more quickly on negotiating trade agreements that are good for all of us. — Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) # # #
03.24.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (March 24, 2018) – Today, as students from around the country exercise their First Amendment rights and call for action, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement on what she is doing to combat school violence and keep guns out of the hands of criminals, those with mental illness, and others who shouldn’t have access. “Last month, following the Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School shooting, I heard from students and brought together local school superintendents, law enforcement, and other school officials to hear their thoughts on what was needed to keep our kids safe at school. The number one thing I heard from them was the need for more resources—resources and funding for mental health counselors, school resource officers, and school security improvements. That’s why as part of the government spending bill that was signed into law yesterday, I fought to get the STOP School Violence Act included to provide resources to schools and law enforcement, and the Fix NICS Act, legislation to fix the federal background check system so criminals, those with mental illness, or others who shouldn’t have guns don’t gain access. I am committed to continue working to stop school violence and keep everyone in our communities safe and secure.” On Thursday, the Congresswoman will hold another open forum to hear from youth in Eastern Washington on how to keep schools safe. Details are as follows: Thursday, March 29, 2018 School Safety Youth Forum with Chase Youth Commission When: 6:30 PM to 7:30 PM Where: Ferris High School, Common Area, 3020 E 37th Ave, Spokane, WA NOTE: Last week, Rep. McMorris Rodgers spoke at a press conference following the initial House passage of the STOP School Violence Act. You can watch her remarks here: <span style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" data-mce-type="bookmark" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> This legislation, of which the Congresswoman is a cosponsor, would prioritize funding in four specific areas to address concerns of students, teachers, school officials, and law enforcement: It will provide grant funding for evidence-based training to prevent student violence against others and self, including training for local law enforcement, school personnel, and students It will fund evidence-based technology and equipment to improve school security and prevent violent attacks It will provide funding for the development and operation of school threat assessment and crisis intervention teams And it will provide funding for continued coordination with local law enforcement The Fix NICS Act will ensure federal and state authorities comply with existing law and report criminal history records to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System. # # #
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (March 22, 2018) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passage of legislation to fund the government, including provisions led by the Congresswoman to fund the military, reform forest management, fix fire borrowing, and deliver resources for rural communities. “The People’s House is prioritizing the security of Americans and their families by keeping our promise to rebuild our military. In addition to giving our troops, like those serving in Eastern Washington, their biggest pay raise in eight years, this funding bill directs critical resources to our defense that will facilitate the delivery of the KC-135’s to Fairchild. By fully meeting the requests made by Secretary Mattis and our military leaders, it will provide the certainty they need to close the readiness gap, train our troops, and equip a 21st Century force that is prepared to defend our nation. “This funding bill also targets needed investments in priorities that will improve the health and safety of people here in Eastern Washington. Specifically, it builds on our ongoing efforts to combat the opioid epidemic, improve care at the Department of Veterans Affairs, modernize Eastern Washington’s crumbling infrastructure, increase school safety, and support our scientists and researchers at the National Institutes of Health who are on the verge of major medical breakthroughs.” “While the FY2018 omnibus ends the dangerous cycle of short-term continuing resolutions for now, this process is badly broken and it must be fixed. The constant threat of government shutdowns is diminishing Eastern Washington’s trust in Congress’s ability to govern effectively. To restore trust and confidence, I will continue to press for solutions that will unlock the appropriations process so Congress can stop lurching from one crisis to the next.” Yesterday, McMorris Rodgers released this statement outlining additional wins for Eastern Washington. NOTE: Upon this legislation being signed into law, the Congresswoman’s SRS legislation will mark her fifth bill to be signed into law in the last six months, and her seventh to pass the House during that time. RURAL WINS Secure Rural Schools: 2-year extension of Secure Rural Schools (SRS) program at roughly $500 million. Fire borrowing: The legislation includes a “fire borrowing fix” by creating a new wildfire suppression cap adjustment under the Budget Control Act (BCA). Forest Management: Provides forest management reforms to help reduce catastrophic forest fires. Fire Suppression Funding: Funds wildland firefighting and prevention programs at the 10-year average of $3.8 billion. PILT: The bill fully funds ($530 million) the Payments In Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program, which provides Federal payments to local governments offset property tax losses due to federal lands Farm Co-Op Tax Fix: Fixes the farm co-op issue by putting agricultural cooperatives and their competitors on a level playing field with respect to the 20 percent deduction for active business income. Rural Broadband: Includes $685 million for the expansion of broadband service at the USDA, $625 million above the FY17 level. Falling Numbers Research: The number is essentially baked into the large ARS number, the increase for falling numbers research is $1 million. HEALTH WINS National Institutes of Health (NIH): Provides $37 billion – a $3 billion increase – in funding to ensure our researchers — like those at Washington State University — have the funding they need to research and develop innovative, life-saving therapies and treatments for patients in our communities and across the country. Opioids: The bill includes nearly $4 billion to combat our national opioid crisis. The funds are targeted for prevention, treatment, and enforcement. The bill directs assistance to communities with the greatest need. WINS FOR FAIRCHILD Troops Pay Raise: 2.4% pay raise for troops, including those at Fairchild AFB Tankers: $2.9 billion included for 18 KC-46A tankers (NDAA authorized 17 KC-46A’s). The delivery of the 46’s will help facilitate the delivery of the KC-135’s to Fairchild PFOS/PFOA: $10 million for PFOS/PFOA studies and analysis in O&M Defense-wide; $42.2 million in Navy Environmental Restoration and $43.8 million in Air Force Environmental Restoration to address costs associated with remediating contamination caused by perfluorinated chemicals National Security/Defense: The bill provides the biggest year-to-year increase in defense funding since the Global War on Terrorism began 15 years ago. This funding will help ensure our men and women in uniform get better training and have more capable weapons and equipment so they can win the fight and return home safely. Veterans: The bill provides the largest dollar amount in history to the Department of Veterans Affairs – $81.5 billion, an increase of $7.1 billion (9.5%) above FY17. The bill includes funding to reduce the backlog of disability claims, provide medical care, and modernize VA facilities. SCHOOL SAFETY WINS School safety: The bill includes the Stop School Violence Act, which creates a grant program to train students, teachers, school officials, and local law enforcement how to identify and intervene early when signs of violence arise, creates a coordinated reporting system, and implements school threat assessment protocols to prevent school shootings before they happen. Background Check Reforms: The bill includes the Fix NICS Act, which ensures federal and state authorities comply with existing law and report criminal history records to the National Instant Criminal Background Check System, OTHER WINS Immigration/Border Security: The bill provides funding for more than 90 miles of border wall system, including nearly $1.6 billion for physical barrier assets and infrastructure, and funding for associated technology and personnel. Infrastructure: The bill includes more than $21 billion to rebuild and modernize our nation’s aging infrastructure, create jobs, and grow the economy. The funding is targeted to invest in America’s bridges, roads, airways, railways, waterways, transportation safety, broadband, and rural infrastructure. Contract Towers: Provides $165 million for the Contract Tower Program. This program has been in place for over 30 years and exemplifies how the private sector and federal government can partner together to improve air traffic safety in a proven, cost-effective manner for the FAA and the American taxpayers. Violence Against Women Act: Provides $492 million for Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) grants program administered through the Department of Justice, an increase of more than $10 million. Questions? Reach out to Jared.Powell@mail.house.gov for more information. # # #
03.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (March 21, 2018) — Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today after securing important forest management and fire borrowing reforms and other wins for rural counties in the government funding bill to be voted on tomorrow, Thursday, March 22. “For too long, Eastern Washington has suffered from the lack of action to enact responsible forest management reforms and fix fire borrowing at the U.S. Forest Service. The practice of fire borrowing is a vicious cycle, leading to a decrease in funds for forest management efforts, and increasing the likelihood of catastrophic wildfires on our forests. This fix is long overdue, and I was proud to lead this effort in the House for everyone who relies on our forests or who live through the consequences of catastrophic fire. “I also made certain my bill to extend the Secure Rural Schools (SRS) program was included. This funding is absolutely critical to those in our rural counties. Counties use these funds to pay for public schools, roads and infrastructure, law enforcement, and other municipal needs. Without this funding, people in rural, forest-centered communities get left behind. “For our farmers, I also made sure we fixed the ‘grain glitch,’ an issue in the tax law that upset the competitive balance between cooperatives and private grain and seed operators. I listened to our farmers, including hearing concerns during my recent telephone town hall, and made it clear this funding bill should not be voted on until we fixed this issue. “I was proud to lead for Eastern Washington in these negotiations to get these things done, and I will continue leading to get results for you and your family and our community.” NOTE: Earlier this month, the Congresswoman spoke alongside county commissioners from Washington and other western states about the importance of her legislation to extend the Secure Rural Schools (SRS) program. You can watch her remarks here: <span style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" data-mce-type="bookmark" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> Read the Congresswoman’s full legislation here. # # #
03.19.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (March 19, 2018) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today wrote a letter to President Donald Trump urging him and his administration to move forward in appointing an individual to fill the vacant director position of the Department of Justice’s Office on Violence against Women (OVW). “Since its enactment, the Violence Against Women Act has enjoyed bipartisan support. This is not a Republican or Democrat, conservative or liberal issue. Together, we all must stand against violence of any kind,” said McMorris Rodgers upon sending the letter. “This position has remained vacant for more than a year now. In order for us to be doing everything we can to combat violence against women and children, we must have someone with a strong vision leading this office. I urge President Donald J. Trump and his administration to move quickly and fill this vacancy as soon as possible. There’s no excuse. We need to get someone in place.” In the letter, the Congresswoman says, “As we move closer to the expiration of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), I believe it is vital that the Administration has a permanent, Senate-confirmed director to demonstrate the Administration’s commitment to preventing violence against women and providing resources and justice to its victims.” She continued, “While I understand that the office currently has an Acting Director, I believe it is imperative that the Administration act quickly to install a permanent director at the office. I urge you and the Department of Justice to act quickly to nominate a Director for OVW, to ensure that the federal government is protecting and serving victims of domestic violence as efficiently and effectively as possible.” Read her full letter here. # # #
03.19.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (March 16, 2018) –Today, U.S. Representatives Dan Newhouse (WA-04), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), and Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-03) sent a letter to U.S. Senators Patty Murray and Maria Cantwell urgently requesting assistance in the appropriations process to place a pause on the court-mandated spill order scheduled to begin April 3, 2018, at the eight lower Snake River and lower Columbia River dams. The representatives wrote in the letter: “We implore you as Washington’s U.S. Senators to assist our efforts to place a pause on the impending spill order mandated to begin April 3,2018, at the eight lower Snake River and lower Columbia River dams. We respectfully ask for your support of our language in the upcoming Fiscal Year 2018 Appropriations legislation to safeguard the Federal Columbia River Power System (FCRPS) while the ongoing litigation in the 9th Circuit Court runs its course. While we understand this pending legal process is still taking place, we believe it is paramount as a co-equal branch of government for Congress to ensure actions conducted within the FCRPS are solely based upon the best-available science.” The representatives continued: “We are very concerned by the unintended consequences this forced spill order could have on our shared constituents in Central and Eastern Washington, as well as the rest of the Pacific Northwest. The three FCRPS Action Agencies—the Army Corps of Engineers (Corps), Bonneville Power Administration (BPA), and Bureau of Reclamation (BOR)—have estimated that should the additional forced spill begin on April 3rd, Pacific Northwest ratepayers could face a $40 million price tag in increased rates this year alone. “As you well know, over 70% of Washington’s electricity comes from clean, renewable hydropower—the impact on our power system will not only affect Central and Eastern Washington, but rather all of Pacific Northwest ratepayers. “This is simply not worth the risk. We must come to the aid of our constituents to stop the $40 million bill that could land on their backs this year alone. Using the legislative language we have developed through many months of working through the technical assistance provided by the Corps, BPA, and BOR, we can ensure our energy infrastructure, transportation and barging systems, flood control capabilities, irrigation systems, our economy, and in fact—the very fish species the BiOp was developed to protect—shall not be harmed by this reckless order for forced additional spill. We again implore you to join our efforts.” Click here for the ful text of the entire letter. ###
03.15.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (March 15, 2018) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) invites high school students from Washington’s Fifth Congressional District to participate in the 2018 Congressional Art Competition. This annual competition serves to highlight and encourage talented high schoolers from all around the country. The winning student will be invited to Washington, D.C. for a ribbon-cutting ceremony and will have his or her artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. Students grade 9-12 are encouraged to submit various styles and types of art, ranging from paintings and drawings to photography and mixed media pieces. The artwork must be original in design, no more than 15 lbs., no larger than 26” X 26” X 4” (including the frame), and be prepared for hanging. Three runners-up will have their artwork on display in the Congresswoman’s Spokane, Colville, and Walla Walla offices. Each student may submit one piece of artwork. Accepted mediums for the two-dimensional artwork are as follows: Paintings: oil, acrylics, watercolor, etc. Drawings: colored pencil, pencil, ink, marker, pastels, charcoal (It is recommended that charcoal and pastel drawings be fixed.) Collages: must be two dimensional Prints: lithographs, silkscreen, block prints Mixed Media: use of more than two mediums such as pencil, ink, watercolor, etc. Computer-generated art Photographs Students should submit a TYPED copy of the 2018 Student Release Form, signed by the teacher, a parent or guardian, and the student must be securely attached to the back of the artwork to certify the originality of the piece. Students are asked to retain a copy for their records. Submissions may be brought to the Congresswoman’s offices in Spokane, Walla Walla, or Colville. The deadline for submission is April 27, 2018, at 5:00 PM PT. For any further questions on the details of the 2018 Congressional Art Competition, contact Jessie Laughery at 509-353-2374. # # #
03.14.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (March 14, 2018) – Through school walkouts, students all across the country are calling for action on school safety, and today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) took action by passing the STOP School Violence Act of 2018. This afternoon, Rep. McMorris Rodgers hosted a press conference on Capitol Hill following the passage of this legislation. Watch her remarks here: <span style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" data-mce-type="bookmark" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> “Every parent should be able to trust that when we drop our kids off at school, it will be a safe place for them to learn, make friends, and find their purpose. That trust was broken in Parkland, Florida, at Freeman High School in Eastern Washington, and in the communities of Columbine, Sandy Hook, and too many others. “When that trust is broken, our communities are left broken, too. In these moments, we need to take a collective step back, and ask the question, ‘Why?’ …in my community it meant that we came together with local superintendents, principals, and law enforcement officers — and we asked the questions: ‘”Why?’ ‘What’s causing our young people to feel so lost or alone?’ And worse, ‘what’s leading them to choose violence?’” NOTE: Following the Freeman High School and Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School shootings, the Congresswoman heard from students and brought together local school superintendents, law enforcement, and other school officials to hear their thoughts on what was needed to keep kids safe at school. The number one thing she heard from them was the need for more resources—resources and funding for mental health counselors, school resource officers, and school security improvements. This legislation, of which the Congresswoman is a cosponsor, would prioritize funding in four specific areas to address concerns of students, teachers, school officials, and law enforcement: It will provide grant funding for evidence-based training to prevent student violence against others and self, including training for local law enforcement, school personnel, and students It will fund evidence-based technology and equipment to improve school security and prevent violent attacks It will provide funding for the development and operation of school threat assessment and crisis intervention teams And it will provide funding for continued coordination with local law enforcement # # #
03.07.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (March 7, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers announced the approval of a $9 million TIGER grant through the Department of Transportation (DOT) for Spokane Valley’s Barker Road/Burlington Northern Sante Fe Grade Separation project. In October, Rep. McMorris Rodgers and Senator Patty Murray sent a letter to Transportation Secretary Elaine Chao advocating for the approval of grant funding for the project. In the letter they say, “The project would improve the safety and efficiency of freight and rail movement in Spokane Valley, increase access for emergency responders, residents, and businesses, and benefit the regional and national economy. In addition, it would facilitate the development of 600 acres of industrial, mixed use, and commercial land which is currently available but difficult to access due to the combination of rail and truck traffic.” “This is great news for Spokane Valley and I was proud to join in advocating on their behalf,” said McMorris Rodgers. “The city led the way in securing 50 percent of the project’s funding through local and state sources, and this federal grant will green light this project to move forward. Thank you to the Department of Transportation for allocating this funding which will help Spokane Valley create economic growth in Eastern Washington.” “The $9 million dollar TIGER grant for the Barker Road rail crossing is critical to the development of the additional 565 acres of Spokane Valley’s northeast industrial area,”added Spokane Valley Mayor Rod Higgins. “This grant completes funding for the first step in bridging BNSF crossings that enhance connections to the north side of our city. With the Barker Road project underway, we will continue to attract clients like Katera and all the support businesses they bring.” NOTE: The grant is funded through the U.S. Department of Transportation’s Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) program. To read the Congresswoman’s full TIGER grant letter in support of the project visit her website here. # # #
03.07.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (March 7, 2018) — Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) joined Rep. Mike Coffman (R-CO) and Rep. Pete Sessions (R-TX) to introduce H.R. 5191, the ‘Medical Improvement of Neurodegenerative Diseases (MIND) Act of 2018’. H.R. 5191 directs the Department of Veterans’ Affairs (VA) to establish Alzheimer’s disease research, education, and clinical centers and requires a scientific specialization in research likely to be transformative, including the connection between Down syndrome and Alzheimer’s Disease. “Research into Down Syndrome can help unlock the answers to many other common health challenges like Alzheimer’s,” said McMorris Rodgers. “What is it about that extra 21st chromosome that those with Down Syndrome have? Almost every individual with Down Syndrome develops Alzheimer’s, but they don’t suffer from other health risks like heart attack or solid tumor cancers. I want America to lead the world in medical innovation, and our veterans deserve the best possible care through the VA. This bill will allow the VA to continue the important research they do, while requiring that research to include this important connection to the 21st chromosome. This research can open the door for new breakthroughs, and I’m proud to join Rep. Mike Coffman and Rep. Pete Sessions to introduce the MIND Act to find cures for our veterans.” “Currently, the VA estimates that about 750,000 veterans suffer from Alzheimer’s and other forms of dementia. When the average age of our nation’s veterans is 58 years, and slowly increasing, delivering and paying for this healthcare presents a challenge. Clearly, the VA needs to aggressively pursue promising scientific research efforts to treat or cure Alzheimer’s disease. Our veterans deserve it, said Rep. Mike Coffman. “Those with Down syndrome have a significantly increased risk of developing Alzheimer’s. Studying this connection, will help the VA better understand how Alzheimer’s progresses, why certain people are more susceptible to the disease, and perhaps lead to breakthrough treatments for Alzheimer’s and Down Syndrome.” Currently the VA spends upwards of $31 million dollars on Alzheimer’s research, but none of it focuses on the connection with Down syndrome. Current studies suggest that more than 50% of those with Down syndrome will eventually suffer from Alzheimer’s or a type of dementia. The bill directs the VA to designate at least 3 VA healthcare facilities to focus on Alzheimer’s research, education and clinical activities. Additionally, it requires a peer review panel to assess the scientific and clinical merit of proposals for these centers. “As the proud father of a young man with Down syndrome, I have seen first-hand the relationship between Down syndrome and Alzheimer’s. There is no question that we need to dedicate resources to research this important issue and study it closely.” Said Rep. Pete Sessions, “I proudly support this important measure so the VA can work with the NIH to learn more about this issue and develop solutions to create a better future for all individuals with Down syndrome” Requirements for facility designation include: Accredited medical schools affiliated with the VA that provides education and training in innovative diagnosis and treatment for neurodegenerative diseases. An advisory committee composed of Veterans and VA healthcare and research representatives The capability to develop a national repository in the VA healthcare system for the collection of data on services delivered to veterans seeking care for neurodegenerative diseases. “We applaud Rep. Mike Coffman for his leadership on this issue and we are grateful for Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers and Rep. Pete Sessions for their valuable support,” said Michelle Sie Whitten, President, CEO, and Co-Founder of the Global Down Syndrome Foundation. “People with Down syndrome have a uniquely elevated risk for developing Alzheimer’s disease – it is estimated that 100% will have the brain pathology of Alzheimer’s by their 40s, and most will develop the associated dementia by their 60’s. Clearly, it is essential that research on both conditions should be done in tandem. Establishing new Alzheimer’s centers funded by the Department of Veterans Affairs will advance this research and, ultimately, improve the lives of millions of people with Down syndrome and millions of typical people who suffer from Alzheimer’s disease.” “The Crnic Institute at the Anschutz Medical Campus is working to make Down syndrome funding at the NIH a priority for over 400,000 people in the US with the condition and for millions worldwide,” said Dr. Joaquin Espinosa, Executive Director, Linda Crnic Institute for Down Syndrome. “We have a team of great scientists, including Dr. Huntington Potter, the scientist who revealed a key mechanistic relationship between Down syndrome and Alzheimer’s disease. Research Centers of Excellence such as the ones that Rep. Mike Coffman is proposing will definitely move the field towards effective therapies or a cure for Alzheimer’s disease to benefit all society.” H.R. 5191 will be referred to the Veterans’ Affairs Committee, of which Rep. Coffman is a Member. ###
03.07.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (March 7, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman joined more than 100 House Republicans in sending a letter to President Trump urging him to reconsider broad tariffs on steel and aluminum products because of their potential impact on Eastern Washington’s economy. “I’m urging the President to reverse course on his recently announced tariffs on steel and aluminum because of the impact it would have on our trade relationships and our economy,” said McMorris Rodgers. “What’s more, leaving NAFTA, KORUS, or other trade agreements–as the President has threatened–would potentially wreak havoc on Eastern Washington’s economy, as will the continued slow pace of negotiating new trade deals and opening new markets. The bottom line is that Washington is the most trade-dependent state in the nation, and especially for Eastern Washington, our farmers rely on open markets to sell their crops all over the world. Broad-reaching tariffs have the potential to spur retaliation that will reduce our competitiveness abroad. I hear about these trade challenges all the time as I meet with farmers in our community. They are worried, and rightfully so. Farmers and manufacturers in Eastern Washington have, and will continue to have, a champion for free and fair trade as I urge the administration to walk back tariffs, stop threats, and move more quickly on negotiating trade agreements that are good for all of us.” In the letter, Rep. McMorris Rodgers and her colleagues explained, “We are writing to express deep concern about the prospect of broad, global tariffs on aluminum and steel imports. Because tariffs are taxes that make U.S. businesses less competitive and U.S. consumers poorer, any tariffs that are imposed should be designed to address specific distortions caused by unfair trade practices in a targeted way while minimizing negative consequences on American businesses and consumers.” NOTE: See full text of the letter here. # # #
03.07.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (March 7, 2018) – In July, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) introduced the bipartisan Modernization of Medical Records Access for Veterans Act of 2017 to provide veterans access to their comprehensive medical records at all times. Today, the Congresswoman spoke before the House Veterans Affairs Committee’s Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations in support of her legislation. In case you missed it, you can watch her full remarks below: <span style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" data-mce-type="bookmark" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> HIGHLIGHTS: “Every day, I hear from veterans in Eastern Washington who are in desperate need for help and yet so often they feel like when they contact the VA, that they’re more of a burden than actually having the red carpet rolled out to them…I have even heard from providers in the community that I represent who have been frustrated to the point of tears because they are unable to treat veterans because the patient cannot obtain their own medical records.” “I’m disappointed that the VA has chosen to oppose this legislation — that they’ve chosen to focus on the challenges rather than the opportunity here to offer our veterans high-quality care. Will there be challenges? Yes. But you know what, that shouldn’t stop us…My staff and I have held several meetings with the VA’s Office of Information and Technology where this legislation was discussed, where VRYTY was brought in to demonstrate their technology and where draft legislation was sent to the VA before introduction for comments and concerns. Additionally, we have in writing that the Office of Information and Technology was supportive of this legislation. In the VA’s words ‘this looks good to us’. What this bill is proposing is a simple, common sense, off-the-shelf, readily available solution to a persistent problem.” NOTE: This legislation was introduced alongside Rep. Seth Moulton (D-MA). Rep. McMorris Rodgers and Rep. Moulton also joined in introducing the Faster Care for Veterans Act in 2016 which passed Congress and was signed into law by President Obama in December of 2016. Another bill aimed at bringing the VA into the 21st Century, this legislation launched a pilot program to allow veterans to use off-the-shelf technology to schedule appointments at the VA using an app or website, an option available to private citizens all over the country. # # #
03.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (March 6, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) joined a bipartisan group of members from the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. Senate to advocate for the extension of the Secure Rural Schools (SRS) program which provides funding to seven of the ten counties she represents in Eastern Washington. The Secure Rural Schools program provides counties with funding to make up for lost timber revenues on federal forests. Counties use this funding to help with infrastructure projects like roads and bridges, public schools, health and law enforcement services, and other public services. In case you missed it, you can watch the full press conference here: Rep. McMorris Rodgers’s remarks as delivered: “It’s wonderful to be here and I’m just thrilled to be joined by the National Association of Counties. “These leaders at the county level from Washington, Oregon, New Mexico, Idaho. They’re on the frontlines. “We are here to join in support and to raise awareness as to the importance of the Secure Rural Schools program. “Nearly 100 years ago it was recognized that we needed to make sure on our federal forests that revenue from the federal forests that dominate a lot of these counties and their property needs is dedicated to supporting the local services, the essential services for our schools and for our counties and our roads and making sure that our communities are safe. “And through the years, especially in recent decades we’ve seen where that revenue has been decreasing. “And it just makes it harder and harder then, for those that are at the county level or in our schools trying to meet important needs and build communities and meet the needs of our kids and our families to survive. “And I represent several counties who are dependent and need the Secure Rural Schools funding. “Unfortunately, this program was put in place and 2000, but it expired in 2015. “And we are here, we are joining to make sure that this is a priority — that we get it included in the budget agreement to raise awareness here on Capitol Hill in the House and the Senate and to say that we must get this done. “I come from Northeastern Washington, Derek was talking about his area on the peninsula, but I come from timber-dependent communities and what happens on our national forests drive the economy in those communities. “And when this revenue, when there isn’t the forest levels and the revenue coming off the forests, it means that these communities are in a desperate situation. “So we are working to get the forest management reforms, also, so these are working forests, but we also need to have the support from the federal government, recognizing that this is the economic driver and what happens on these forests impact our communities, impact families, impact our future. “So, Secure Rural Schools and PILT, we’re here to get it done. Thank you, everyone, for joining.” NOTE: The Secure Rural Schools program provides vital funding for seven counties across Eastern Washington to assist with public schools, roads, and other municipal needs. In May of 2017, Rep. McMorris Rodgers introduced bipartisan legislation to extend the program. For more information about this legislation, visit the Congresswoman’s website here. # # #
03.05.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (March 5, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement expressing the need to take quick action to provide long-term certainty to DACA recipients and secure our border. “I am very disappointed that this issue remains unresolved. I said earlier this year that a bipartisan agreement is the best path forward, and I still believe that, but we need to get this done. I wanted us to find a solution by today, but it appears that deadline will not be met. The president left the issue in our hands, and I will continue working with my colleagues to advocate for action and encourage those negotiating this to come to a deal based on the agreed upon bipartisan principles.” NOTE: The Supreme Court has determined they will not expedite review of DACA and are still considering the issue. Thus, as of now, DACA renewal applications will still be accepted and processed. In January, the Congresswoman issued this statement on the negotiations stating, “Immigration issues are important to people in Eastern Washington, and the best way to find a successful solution is through a bipartisan deal—understanding that neither side will get everything they want.” In September, following the president’s announcement to end the DACA program, the Congresswoman said in a statement, “We must protect children who are already here in this country and those who are currently protected under DACA.” # # #
03.01.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (March 1, 2018) – This weekend, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) will serve as co-host of the Faith and Politics Institute’s (FPI) 2018 Congressional Civil Rights Pilgrimage, which will take place from March 2nd through March 4th visiting Memphis, Birmingham, Montgomery, and Selma. The pilgrimage will be led by civil rights icon Congressman John Lewis (D-GA). The Congresswoman will also welcome the following community and religious leaders from Eastern Washington to join her on the trip. Phillip Tyler, Co-founder Peaceful Community Roundtable and past Spokane NAACP President Kitara Johnson, Chief Development Officer at Excelsior Joe Wittwer, Pastor, Life Center in Spokane, Washington Lonnie Mitchell, Pastor, Bethel AME Church in Spokane, Washington Rodney McAuley, Community and Church Engagement Director at the Spokane Youth for Christ Earlier today, the Congresswoman hosted these leaders from Eastern Washington in her Washington, D.C. office ahead of their departure tomorrow. <span style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" data-mce-type="bookmark" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> “This pilgrimage is but a single step in our united journey to continue to learn from our history, from one another, and ensure the missteps of our past are not repeated in our present or future. This is an opportunity to both reflect and grow, together, from a brave place, not a safe space. We are eternally thankful for the gracious invitation by our Congresswoman to make this journey together.” — Phil Tyler, Co-founder Peaceful Community Roundtable and past Spokane NAACP President “This pilgrimage is a powerful moment in the present that allows us to reflect on the past, how far we’ve come as a people and a nation. The very fabric of our political system is infused with our nation’s faith in God. It is that very faith that we need to restore relationships and reinvigorate the values that our nation’s founding leaders held true, that ALL people are created equal. I appreciate Cathy’s bipartisan vision as a leader in this year’s pilgrimage because it truly gives me hope both for our community and our country. It’s an honor to be invited and I’m happy to be a part of this journey.” — Kitara Johnson, Chief Development Officer at Excelsior The theme of the pilgrimage is drawn from one of Dr. King’s most enduring lessons: “Life’s most persistent and urgent question is, “What are you doing for others?” In a speech about unity and building stronger communities, Cathy said the following about the pilgrimage on Martin Luther King, Jr. Day: “This March, I will travel to Memphis, Selma, and Montgomery and serve as Honorary Co-Host of the 2018 Congressional Civil Rights Pilgrimage — nearly 53 years after the Selma to Montgomery Marches. “This is something I never imagined I would have the chance to take part in. From Brown Chapel AME Church in Selma where the marches began to Edmund Pettus Bridge where police attacked the non-violent protests and on to Dexter Avenue King Memorial Baptist Church in Montgomery, Alabama, where Dr. King organized the Montgomery Bus Boycott. “I’m so honored to be a part of this journey through the history of the civil rights movement, and I’m hopeful that I will be able to welcome some friends here from Spokane to join me on this trip.” Click here to read her full remarks. For questions and media requests regarding the Congresswoman’s trip, please contact Jared.Powell@mail.house.gov. # # #
02.27.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (February 27, 2018) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed the Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act (H.R. 1865), sponsored by Rep. Ann Wagner (R-MO). “I think about my own kids and the absolute horror that other parents must feel at the thought of their children being advertised for sale online. Thankfully, in my district, we have organizations like the Coalition to Abolish Human Trafficking, HRC Ministries, the Jonah Project, the Broadway Flying J, Partners with Family and Children, Lutheran Community Services, and other faith-based organizations working to put a stop to these barbaric and heartbreaking crimes. However, there is more that we can do at all levels of government to keep these crimes from happening in the first place. “We cannot let websites, like Backpage.com, jeopardize the safety of our children because they turn a blind eye to sex trafficking online. Rep. Wagner’s legislation will enhance criminal enforcement efforts and give federal, state, and local prosecutors the tools they need to bring cases against bad actors on the dark web. “As I’ve said before, the best way we can provide justice to victims of such heinous crimes is by giving them the assurances that it will never happen again. That’s why the House is taking additional action today to hold those who facilitate these crimes fully accountable under the law.” Note: Today, Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives in support of this legislation. You can watch her remarks here: Rep. McMorris Rodgers also voted in support of Rep. Mimi Walters’ amendment to the Allow States and Victims to Fight Online Sex Trafficking Act (H.R. 1865), which ensures that survivors can bring claims against websites that knowingly facilitate sex trafficking and allows states to use their sex trafficking laws to hold these websites accountable. Additionally, it allows state Attorneys General to bring civil actions on behalf of trafficking victims. # # #
02.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (February 22, 2018) – Today, U.S. Representatives Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Dan Newhouse (WA-04), and Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-03) released this statement following a letter from Senator Murray and others opposing bipartisan legislation (H.R. 3144) to protect the Columbia and Snake River dams and help aid in fish recovery efforts. “It’s unthinkable that Seattle Democrats are putting politics over science when it comes to improving fish recovery efforts. What’s more, they are making Washington state ratepayers pick up the tab—with an estimated price tag of $40 million in higher electricity rates from increasing spill this year alone. Further, their letter states that every alternative must be looked at, which includes the breaching of the Snake River dams. Millions of dollars have been spent studying these dams and improvements have been made to improve fish survival rates, with recent return rates being 97% and above. They claim to support clean renewable energy, while simultaneously working to destroy hydropower, Washington state’s largest source of carbon-neutral, clean energy. Breaching the dams, which provide critical benefits for communities in our state, should not even be an option. “The Biological Opinion is the result of years of collaborative work between President Barack Obama’s administration, Washington and other Pacific Northwest states, sovereign Northwest tribes, and other local stakeholders with direct knowledge and expertise in mitigation and recovery efforts. Rejecting the BiOp only hurts the people of Washington state and sets us back decades in our fight to protect fish and support clean energy.” NOTE: Read more about Reps. McMorris Rodgers, Newhouse, and Herrera Beutler’s legislation here. # # #
02.15.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (February 15, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after voting no on H.R. 620, the ADA Education and Reform Act. “I expressed a number of concerns with this legislation to my colleagues over the past week. While I can appreciate and understand the intent to provide fairness to businesses, any changes should preserve the spirit of the ADA and reduce the burden on individuals with disabilities to bring legitimate compliance claims. Everyone, no matter their ability, should have access to the same accommodations in their communities as their peers. The ADA was enacted more than 25 years ago to protect the disability community, and as part of that community, I could not in good conscience vote for this bill.” # # #
02.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (February 9, 2018) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed theBipartisan Budget Act. “Even though it’s far from perfect, this agreement includes some great wins for the people of Eastern Washington, including two of my bills: one to bring more doctors to rural and underserved communities and another to provide permanent certainty that those with degenerative diseases will have access to critical speech-generating technology. “Further, this agreement includes $6 billion in funding to fight the opioid epidemic, increased funding for Community Health Centers, and the inclusion of fuel cells and other renewables under the PATH Act Investment Tax Credit. “And most importantly, the Bipartisan Budget Act prioritizes military funding so that the Department of Defense has much needed resources to address this crisis, provide for our national security, and give our troops the pay raise they deserve. Right now, our military faces a readiness crisis that is weakening their ability to fight unpredictable threats abroad. Our troops are flying broken airplanes, they are often spending more time on maintenance work than training, and their equipment is not combat ready. “There’s a lot for Eastern Washington to be happy about in this bill, and I was proud to work to get many of these provisions included. “I said after the Schumer Shutdown that budget reforms needed to be included in a long-term agreement to keep the government from lurching from one funding crisis to the next. Short-term continuing resolutions and shutdown threats have diminished the people’s trust in Congress to effectively govern. I’m glad that this agreement creates a committee for Republicans and Democrats to come together and advance desperately needed reforms. We must fix this broken budget process to restore trust and provide greater certainty to the American people.” WINS FOR WA-05: Rep. McMorris Rodgers’s Steve Gleason Enduring Voices Act, which will give peace of mind to individuals who rely on speech generating devices. Rep. McMorris Rodgers’s legislation to extend the Teaching Health Center Graduate Medical Education (THCGME) program for two years and double current funding levels. Creates a Joint Select Committee on Budget and Appropriations Process Reform. The Committee will vote on recommendations and legislative language to send to Congress by November 30, 2018. The Commission will be made up of 16 members. This committee was a major priority of the Congresswoman’s. A long time priority of Rep. McMorris Rodgers, the bill provides $6 billion in funding to combat the opioid epidemic, including enhanced state grants, public prevention programs, and law enforcement activities related to substance abuse and mental health programs. Expands Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) for an additional 4 years, bringing the total reauthorization to 10 years. The Congresswoman has voted repeatedly in favor of CHIP funding. Extends Community Health Centers for two years and increases funding from $3.6 billion per year to $3.8 billion for FY2018 and $4 billion for FY2019. Provides 5-year extension of the PATH Act Investment Tax Credit (ITC) treatment of alternative energy properties previously only claimed by wind and solar to include fuel cells, small wing, geothermal heat pumps, and solar water heating. A promoter of clean, renewable energy, this tax credit will benefit many of the clean renewable companies here in Eastern Washington. Extends both the Special Diabetes Program for Type I Diabetes and the Special Diabetes Program for Indians for two years at current levels of $150 million each per year, a huge win for Eastern Washington’s tribes and a priority of the Congresswoman’s. # # #
02.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (February 6, 2018) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed a continuing resolution to fund the government until March 23, 2018, which included two pieces of her legislation. The first extends the Teaching Health Center Graduate Medical Education (THCGME) program for two years and doubles current funding levels. The second is the Steve Gleason Enduring Voices Act, which permanently fixes the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) policy that limited access to speech-generating devices for people with degenerative diseases. The continuing resolution also includes a full year of funding for the Department of Defense for Fiscal Year 2018. “These two bills, one to bring more doctors to rural and underserved communities and another to provide permanent certainty that those with degenerative diseases will have access to speech-generating technology, are two important reforms to help people here in Eastern Washington. I’m proud to see two bills that I’ve introduced included in this funding package. “For the sake of our troops who are serving on the front lines, we need a broader budget agreement that properly funds our military. Unfortunately, Democrats are continuing to hold military funding hostage with partisan demands, and this is delaying our progress. As a result, a continuing resolution is again necessary to keep the government open. “It’s critical that Senate Democrats allow this legislation to move forward. That starts with ending the political games and joining us to put the safety and security of Americans first.” NOTE: Rep. McMorris Rodgers introduced her legislation to extend the THCGME program and increase funding levels to $157,000 per student, per year, in July of 2017. This important program ensures that places like the Spokane Teaching Health Clinic can continue to serve the Eastern Washington community. Upon passing the House Energy and Commerce Committee in September, the Congresswoman said, “Bringing more physicians to Eastern Washington is one of my top priorities. Our rural and urban underserved communities struggle to access the medical professionals they need and Teaching Health Center programs like the Spokane Teaching Health Clinic will help create a new generation of rural doctors—trained right here in our community.” Washington State University Spokane Chancellor Daryll B. DeWald had this to say about the Congresswoman’s legislation last fall: “Washington State University made an early and strong commitment to the Spokane Teaching Health Center when the institution provided funds for the design and construction of the center aimed at tackling the physician shortage by increasing residency opportunities in central and eastern Washington. We are grateful for the leadership of Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers in increasing resident slots as a way to ensure physicians stay in the region once they complete their medical education and moving this bill through committee. WSU looks forward to working with her to ensure the proposal gets across the finish line.” You can find more information about the Congresswoman’s legislation here. In July of 2015, the Steve Gleason Act was signed into law to provide temporary relief to those with ALS and other diseases and ensured that the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) would reimburse for speech-generating technologies. The Steve Gleason Enduring Voices Act builds upon the success of the Steve Gleason Act by making these changes permanent, so those who need these devices never have to worry about accessing them. See a full history of the Congresswoman’s efforts and learn more about the Steve Gleason Enduring Voices Act by visiting her website here. Upon introduction of this bipartisan bill, the Congresswoman said, “Steve Gleason is a hero and inspiration to all of us, and especially to the thousands of Americans living with degenerative diseases who, like him, rely on speech generating devices to communicate with their family, friends, and doctors.When bureaucratic rules threatened to silence many of them, the Gleason Act gave these individuals the peace of mind to know that their voices will continue to be heard. The Steve Gleason Enduring Voices Act ensures there are ‘no white flags’ and that access to speech-generating devices continues permanently for those who need it most. This is about giving a permanent voice to the voiceless.” # # #
02.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (February 6, 2018) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) spoke on the floor of the House of Representatives today before the House passed her Common Sense Nutrition Disclosure Act (H.R. 772), legislation to provide flexibility for businesses and ensure calorie count information is available to consumers. The bill passed the House today with a strong bipartisan vote of 266-157. <span style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" data-mce-type="bookmark" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> She said, “This bill, at its very core, is about flexibility. Flexibility for businesses to meet the requirements of the rule and present this calorie information in a way that makes sense for them and their customers. “This legislation provides flexibility in how restaurants provide the nutritional information. It makes it easier for customers to actually see and understand the information because it’s displayed where customers actually place orders – including by phone, online, or through mobile apps. “By bringing this rule into the 21st Century, customers can trust they are getting the reliable information they need in an easy to access, consumer-friendly way.” Note: Learn more about the Congresswoman’s legislation by visiting her website here. # # #
02.06.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (February 6, 2018) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed the Congressional Accountability Act of 1995 Reform Act (H.R. 4924) and a resolution to create additional protections, such as establishing the Office of Employee Advocacy, for employees of the U.S. House of Representatives (H.Res. 724). “Today, the House is taking immediate action to renew the people’s trust in their representative government by reforming the outdated laws that govern the Congressional workplace. We are strengthening transparency and accountability, creating new protections for employees, and preventing taxpayer funds from being used to pay settlements. “As I’ve said many times before, Members of Congress must walk the talk and lead by example. There is no room for sexual harassment in any workplace, and there should be zero tolerance for it on Capitol Hill. It’s a privilege to serve in this body, and I’m grateful for the leadership of House Administration Committee Chair Gregg Harper for his leadership on this bipartisan legislation that ensures all Members are held to the highest standard.” Note: In December, Rep. McMorris Rodgers wrote a piece for The Inlander on the changes she wanted to see reflected in how the Congress deals with harassment in the workplace. Specifically, she said, “The Congressional Accountability Act of 1995, the law responsible for governing conduct in the congressional workplace, should be reevaluated and updated to reflect these concerns. I believe it’s my job to put a stop to these issues — to lead in Congress on behalf of women and survivors of harassment.” You can reach the full piece here. # # #
02.05.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (February 5, 2017) – Tonight, two health care bills introduced by Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) were included in the House Appropriations Committee continuing resolution to fund the government until March 23. The bill includes a two year extension of the Teaching Health Center Graduate Medical Education (THCGME) program and the Steve Gleason Enduring Voices Act. The Congresswoman released the following statement after these two bills were included in this continuing resolution. “Bringing more physicians to Eastern Washington is one of my top priorities, which is why I’ve led the effort to get the teaching health centers program extended,” said McMorris Rodgers. “The Steve Gleason Enduring Voices Act is crucial to ensuring that those with degenerative diseases have access to the life-changing technology they need to speak and communicate with their doctors and loved ones. Both of these health care reforms will help improve people’s lives right here in Eastern Washington, and I’m proud to see them included in this bill.” NOTE: You can find more information about the THCGME program and the Congresswoman’s legislation here. To learn more about the Steve Gleason Enduring Voices Act visit the Congresswoman’s website here. # # #
01.30.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (January 30, 2018) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement via Facebook Live after President Donald J. Trump delivered his first State of the Union Address to a joint session of Congress. She said, “I am inspired tonight. I was inspired by the stories of Americans. The stories he highlighted of people doing their part in so many different ways… I appreciated his message of unity. He said that he’s committed to restoring the bonds of trust between citizens and their government. That’s so important.” # # #
01.22.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (January 22, 2018) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today released the following statement after Congress passed a continuing resolution to fund the government until February 8, 2018, and reauthorize the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) for six years. “For our troops who keep us safe and for the sake of our most vulnerable children, I’m relieved Democrats reversed course and joined Republicans to fund the government and reauthorize CHIP. Bipartisan negotiators in the House and Senate now have the time they need to put together a broader budget agreement that puts the safety and security of Americans first with adequate funds for our military to rebuild and restore our readiness. A DACA fix remains on the agenda too, and I will keep pressing my colleagues working on a DACA deal to come to a bipartisan agreement as soon as possible.” “The bottom line is that a shutdown is never good for the American people and it diminishes their trust in their representatives. Last year, the House did its job passing all 12 appropriations bills to fund the federal government and sent them to the Senate. Unfortunately, the Senate’s outdated rules allow a small minority to obstruct the will of the American people by holding must-pass measures hostage to partisan politics and political games. By allowing a simple majority of Senators to advance spending bills, the Schumer Shutdown could have been averted. I have long said the budget process is broken. As part of a long-term deal to fund the government, we must include reforms that help unlock our appropriations process and ensure we stop lurching from one funding crisis to the next.” Note: Rep. McMorris Rodgers introduced legislation to restore the “power of the purse” to the American people as outlined in Article I of the Constitution. The Unauthorized Spending Accountability (USA) Act puts all unauthorized programs on a pathway to sunset in 3 years and requires any new authorizations or reauthorizations to include a sunset clause. This means every government program will be routinely scrutinized and updated by the People’s representatives. Learn more about this legislation here. # # #
01.20.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (January 20, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) sent a letter to the Chief Administrative Officer of the U.S. House of Representatives to request he withhold her pay until such time that normal government operations resume. In the letter, the Congresswoman says, “Americans are rightly worried about the impact a shutdown will have on people all across this country. Hundreds of thousands of Americans are now furloughed around the country, through no fault of their own. These worries are compounded by the refusal of Democrats to provide certainty and pay for our troops and failure to reauthorize the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), leaving 9 million kids vulnerable and jeopardizing their health insurance. This is now the reality for many Americans, and it could have been prevented. As Members of Congress, we have an obligation to change this new normal. “I believe that fairness dictates that my pay also be withheld until such time that normal government operations resume.” You can read the Congresswoman’s letter here. # # #
01.19.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (January 20, 2018) — Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after Senate Democrats shut down the federal government. “Senate Democrats had the power to do the right thing— to fund the government, support our military, and reauthorize the Children’s Health Insurance Program. They made the wrong choice tonight to shut down the government, deny our troops their pay, and keep health care coverage from 9 million children who rely on CHIP. It’s disappointing. It’s sad. It’s incomprehensible. “The American people deserve better than a small minority of one party obstructing a fundamental responsibility of Congress— to fund the government. Democrats must put false deadlines and politics aside to end this Schumer Shutdown immediately.” # # #
01.19.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (January 19, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 4712, the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act: “As tens of thousands of Americans march in D.C. today to celebrate the sanctity of life, I’m proud that the House took action to protect human life with the Born-Alive Abortion Survivors Act. This legislation affirms that every human life deserves the God-given chance to reach their full potential. “All life is worthy of our protection, and as representatives of the people, it is our responsibility to make sure our laws reflect that. I would like to thank Rep. Marsha Blackburn for her leadership on this bill, and I’m grateful to all our members who came together to stand with the pro-life generation today.” Note: Today, before the 45th annual March For Life, the Congresswoman delivered a message of unity to the pro-life community. Click here to watch. “Every year, when I see tens of thousands of young people, moms, dads, religious leaders and more who march to the Supreme Court, I am amazed at the thought that everyone has a story to share. A story that defines who they are and why they are here.” “For me, as a pro-life mom of three, part of my story is with my oldest son, Cole, who was born with that extra 21st chromosome. When my husband and I received that news, it wasn’t what we expected. We were given a long list of challenges and chances of heartache.” “Now, 10 years later, Cole is working his way through the fifth grade. He lights up a room. People are drawn to him. He is in Cub Scouts and plays sports. Last weekend, he scored 3 points in his basketball game. He is living a life full of huge potential.” “Stories like my family’s of kids beating the odds and [reminds] us that all life is a precious gift. Every story is an opportunity for the pro-life movement to grow.” # # #
01.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (January 18, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed a clean 6-year reauthorization of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) as part of a bill to fund the government. “CHIP is something both parties agree must get done to provide certainty to more than 60,000 children in Washington state, and their families, who rely on this critical program. Both parties also agree we need a DACA deal, but not having one yet is absolutely no reason to hold children’s health care hostage and shutdown the government. Every Democrat who voted against this bill not only voted for a government shutdown, they voted to deny nearly 9 million children nationwide access to the critical health care they need and rely on. “Will Senators Murray and Cantwell vote for the Schumer Shutdown or to fund children’s health insurance, support our military, and keep the government open? I hope for the sake of our children and the safety of our nation it’s the latter.” NOTE: This legislation provides government funding through February 16, 2018, to keep the government open and operating. The clean CHIP extension would be the longest extension of the program since its establishment in 1997. # # #
01.18.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (January 18, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the Mann-Grandstaff Spokane VA Medical Center announced plans to return to 24-hour urgent care in the near future. “Earlier this year, I sat down with Secretary Shulkin and Chairman of the House Veterans Affairs Committee Dr. Phil Roe, and I identified returning Mann-Grandstaff to 24-hour urgent care as an action item for veterans in Eastern Washington,” said McMorris Rodgers. “I’m so pleased to see the VA making this happen at my request, and I’m committed to remaining a partner along the way. Our veterans should have somewhere to go at all hours of the day. They earned and deserve it.” NOTE: In November, during a visit with House Veterans Affairs Committee Chairman Phil Roe (R-TN), McMorris Rodgers and Roe established four actions items for the Spokane VA, one of which was to restore 24-hour urgent care. You can read more about that visit here. The Congresswoman will continue having productive conversations with the Spokane VA, the House VA Committee, and others at the Department to continue working on these other action items. # # #
01.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (January 16, 2018) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today released the following statement after legislation to fund the government by this Friday, January 19, was introduced with a 6-year reauthorization on the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP). “For the past six months, I’ve been advocating for the reauthorization of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP). This is something we must get done to provide certainty to more than 60,000 children in Washington state, and their families, who rely on this critical program. I’m thrilled to see this 6-year reauthorization of CHIP—the longest extension in the program’s history—included in this continuing resolution to fund the government. It’s my hope that we can finally see this program extended to provide long term certainty to those on CHIP and allow for states to plan for the future.” NOTE: This 6-year extension would be the longest extension of the program since its establishment in 1997. On November 3, the House passed H.R. 3922, the CHAMPIONING HEALTHY KIDS Act to extend funding for CHIP, Community Health Centers, and other important public health programs. This legislation was fully offset through responsible reforms like reducing federal subsidies for seniors earning more than $500,000 each year (or $40,000 each month) by limiting government contributions for their Part B and D premiums, and disenrolling lottery jackpot winners from Medicaid to prioritize the most vulnerable. Last month, the House acted to provide short-term funding for states to continue their CHIP programs, giving the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) greater flexibility over the use of redistribution funds. This legislation provided $2.85 billion in funding for CHIP to last through March 31, 2018. # # #
01.16.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (January 16, 2018) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement on the ongoing negotiations on DACA and border security efforts. “I’m disappointed that bipartisan negotiators in the House and Senate haven’t reached an agreement on DACA. Immigration issues are important to people in Eastern Washington, and the best way to find a successful solution is through a bipartisan deal—understanding that neither side will get everything they want. I was pleased when President Trump told Congress to find a solution and was hopeful we could reach that agreement by the end of this week. I’m still hopeful that we can. We have until March 5th, and I will keep pressing my colleagues working on this deal to come to an agreement as soon as possible. To me, that means addressing the same bipartisan issues that negotiators in the House and Senate are working on, including fixing DACA to provide certainty to those who came here at no fault of their own, but also working to strengthen border security efforts through increased border infrastructure and agents, and completing a biometric entry-exit system to ensure that we reduce visa overstays. We must also reform the diversity visa lottery and address chain migration. I support these four bipartisan principles.” # # #
01.10.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (January 10, 2018) – Last year, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) nominated local Hutton Settlement employee, David Milliken, for the Excellence in Mentoring Awards through MENTOR: The National Mentorship Partnership. Last month, David was announced as one of the nation’s four recipients of this distinguished honor and will make a trip to Washington, D.C. this month to accept his award and be recognized for his incredible commitment to his community and the young people in it. “It is incumbent upon each of us to be doing our part to make a positive impact in our community, and David is a perfect example of that here in Spokane,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Too many youth in our community face unimaginable hardships and often have no one to look to for advice, for an example, or for mentorship. But when they have no one to look to, people like David step up to serve as a positive and often life-changing force to help guide them along their journey. I want to thank David for his unwavering commitment to the Spokane community and to our area’s youth. Congratulations on this important and well-deserved honor!” “With 20 years of service at Hutton Settlement, David Milliken has truly shone as a mentor to our youth,” said the Hutton Settlement. “His leadership inspires children to be change-makers within our community and he consistently and enthusiastically encourages youth to feel empowered, heard and loved. The majority of the children coming to Hutton have experienced severe trauma. David makes certain that every child coming through our doors is able to participate in activities that bring them joy, positive childhood memories and lifelong relationships. David’s goal is to transform the children in our care from receivers of services to givers of services by the time they graduate and his efforts have proven to be very successful. We are honored to have David as an employee of Hutton Settlement and excited that his efforts are being recognized nationally. He is truly deserving. We’d also like to thank Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers for recognizing David’s service to the community by nominating him for this prestigious award.” NOTE: David joined the Hutton Settlement in June, 1997. After his military service and higher education, David spent years in various child welfare roles at Hutton including case management, youth development, education and now organizational leadership. He has a B.S. in Psychology and an M.A. in Organizational Leadership. David’s interests include fly fishing, international travel, and permaculture gardening. Established in 1919, the Hutton Settlement is a neighborhood of care in the Spokane community. They provide safe and healthy living opportunities for children, ages 5 to 18, in need of a long-term alternative home. For more information visit their website here. You can view David’s full nomination here. # # #
01.09.2018	WASHINGTON, D.C. (January 9, 2017) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today released the following statement after the House passed H. Res. 676, a resolution condemning the Iranian regime for its crackdown of legitimate protests. McMorris Rodgers is also a cosponsor of this resolution. “Not only does the Iranian regime make the world less safe as the largest state sponsor of terrorism, it rules its own people with brutal oppression and violent force. The bipartisan resolution sponsored by Chair Ed Royce that the House passed today supports Iranians who are protesting for their freedom. Alongside the Trump administration, we are sending a clear message that America stands with these courageous men and women calling for peace, stability, and democracy in Iran.” I support the courageous men and women who are peacefully protesting and calling for freedom in Iran. The U.S. and our allies must continue to stand with them against the oppressive Iranian regime. — CathyMcMorrisRodgers (@cathymcmorris) January 5, 2018 # # #
12.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (December 19, 2017) – Minutes ago, the House passed the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act (H.R. 1) to provide tax relief to families in Eastern Washington and across the country. Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) took to Facebook Live to discuss the importance of this bill and the benefit it will bring to hardworking families around the country. In case you missed it, you can see her statement here: <span style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" data-mce-type="bookmark" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> “For people in Eastern Washington, I often hear families and individuals say that they feel like they are working harder and harder but falling behind,” said McMorris Rodgers. “I’m excited about what the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act means for them.” This evening, the Senate will take up this legislation for consideration. You can find details about the Congresswoman’s priorities for the final version of the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act here, and go to Fairandsimple.GOP for resources on tax reform and what it means for the American people. # # #
12.15.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (December 15, 2017) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House-Senate conference committee released the conference report for the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act (H.R. 1). “At every step in this process, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act has been written to improve the lives of everyday Americans and their families by creating more jobs, fairer taxes, and bigger paychecks. With this pro-economic growth and pro-family tax plan, we are significantly increasing the standard deduction, lowering rates across the board, and making it easier for everyone to file their taxes. In fact, the average family of four making $73,000 a year will receive a tax cut of more than $2,000. “I’m also proud to say this plan carries on the legacy of the ABLE Act with my legislation to help families with children with disabilities. It allows families to roll over funds from a 529 college saving account to an ABLE account so they can pay medical bills and other living expenses. It also includes the ABLE to Work Act that would allow individuals to save more of their own money so they can explore the workforce and find a good-paying job. “I would like to congratulate the House and Senate conferees and thank them for their hard work. I am particularly pleased that they came together on solutions to protect the tax exempt status of graduate student tuition waivers and Private Activity Bonds to fund the construction of low-income housing units. “Americans sent us here to do big things, and overhauling our broken tax code for the first time in 31 years is at the top the list. This is our once-in-a-generation chance to change the status quo and help everyone reach their full potential in a stronger economy with more opportunities to succeed. I look forward to sending this bill to the President’s desk by Christmas.” You can view the full conference report here. NOTE: During the conference committee process, the Congresswoman repeated her priorities for the final bill including protecting the tax exempt status of graduate student tuition waivers and private activity bonds used to fund the construction of low-income housing. Both of these priorities are reflected in the conference report. Key provisions from the Congresswoman’s “ABLE 2.0” legislative package are also included in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act conference report, including the ABLE to Work Act and the ABLE Financial Planning Act. ABLE to Work Act: This legislation would allow an ABLE beneficiary who earns income for a job to save up to the Federal Poverty Level, which is currently at $11,770, in addition to their annual contribution limit of $14,000. This is targeted to assist only those disabled individuals who cannot contribute to an employer retirement saving plan. ABLE Financial Planning Act: This legislation allows for rollovers from a 529 to a 529A account, but still maintains the annual contribution limit of $14,000. This would allow individuals who may have been saving for their child’s college tuition, which is now no longer needed, to rollover up to the maximum contribution each year until the 529 account has been depleted. # # #
12.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (December 14, 2017) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the Federal Communication Commission’s vote to roll back heavy-handed Title II regulations put into place by the Obama administration. “I support an open Internet, but there is a better way to ensure consumer protections without disrupting the free flow of information and innovation that has made it a cornerstone of the 21st Century economy,” said McMorris Rodgers. “The heavy-handed rules from the Obama administration stifled investment in rural communities, like those in Eastern Washington, and created uncertainty for ISPs in meeting the requirements of those rules. What I want is for everyone to come to the table to find a bipartisan, legislative solution that will protect consumers while not harming investment, innovation, and free-market principles.” NOTE: The Obama-era rules reclassified Internet governance as a utility according to a 1934 statute. The vote today by the FCC will return Internet governance to the way it was prior to 2015, under which the Internet grew and expanded and became what it is today. In a recent letter from 63 small broadband providers around the country, they said: “Since the Commission reclassified broadband as a public utility in 2015, investment has been heading in the wrong direction.” The Obama-era rules created significant regulatory uncertainty for the companies deploying and maintaining broadband networks. In fact, when asked by members of Congress, former FCC Chairman Wheeler could not clearly identify what a violation of the rule’s general conduct standard would be. This uncertainty resulted in less consumer choice, less innovation, and less broadband development. According to a recent economic analysis, domestic broadband capital expansion declined by $3.6 billion in the years since these heavy-handed regulations were implemented, a 5.6 percent decline relative to 2014 levels. # # #
12.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (December 12, 2017) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today released the following statement at the start of Hanukkah: “Let me wish all my friends a most Happy Hanukkah! “The Festival of Lights comes each year as winter’s dark days are closing in on us. Now is the time to gather family close, feast on latkes, play dreidel, and light the candles. “History teaches us that in 200 B.C.E. the Maccabees rebelled when King Antiochus banned Jewish worship in Jerusalem, the capital city where the holy Temple was built. This year, we can celebrate a little extra, to be living in a country that is unafraid to say out loud what two thousand years of history has been unable to erase– that Jerusalem was and remains Israel’s capital! “We’re blessed to live in a country where our religious freedom is constitutionally guaranteed; where we see menorahs alongside Christmas trees. That liberty, which so many sacrifice to preserve, is something we must never take for granted. “The miracle of Hanukkah came when the lamps in the Temple shone for eight days – but that wasn’t possible until the people had the courage and determination to stand up for their freedom. So today, when you light the Hanukkah candles, may you bask in the warm glow of celebration with your family, and also remember the courage of the Maccabees for the example they set for generations to come. “Happy Hanukkah from my family to yours.” # # #
12.11.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (December 11, 2017) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) introduced the bipartisan Ensuring Patient Access to Healthcare Records Act, which gives medical record clearinghouses the ability to provide patients with their own comprehensive healthcare records, and allows them to analyze claims data for the good of public health. “Even in the age of technology, it can be difficult for patients to obtain their comprehensive health records. Whether it’s because of a move to a new state, switching providers, an unexpected visit to the emergency room, or a new doctor, patients must track down their own records from numerous different sources based on what they can or cannot remember,” said McMorris Rodgers. “It shouldn’t be this burdensome. Our bill gives patients the ability to see a snapshot of their health records at just a simple request, allowing them to make better, more informed healthcare decisions in a timely manner.” NOTE: Each year, healthcare clearinghouses process hundreds of millions of transactions safely and securely from more than 5,000 hospitals, 900,000 doctors, 66,000 pharmacies and 20,000 labs across the country. These records include information about the provider, the diagnosis, and the treatment for each episode of care. Today, clearinghouses have the capability to link this data and build longitudinal health records to provide patients with a comprehensive health record. Clearinghouses can also analyze this data to provide real-world solutions to address important public policy goals through tracking patient outcomes and broad-based analysis of readmissions, comorbidities, and adverse outcomes across the entire continuum of service providers; near real-time tracking of significant disease outbreaks or epidemics; and improving and allowing for greater access to new drugs and therapies. Regrettably, clearinghouses are currently unable to offer this transformative service to patients and other stakeholders due to the administration’s rules implementing the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA). This legislation works to change that so patients all across Eastern Washington can have access to comprehensive medical records. # # #
12.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (December 8, 2017) – Yesterday evening, the Department of State announced its intentions to move into renegotiations of the Columbia River Treaty beginning in early 2018. Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement in response: “The Columbia River Treaty and the relationship between the U.S. and Canada play an indispensable role in the livelihoods of those in the Pacific Northwest,” said McMorris Rodgers. “But we must move forward with renegotiations to ensure this agreement remains mutually-beneficial. I’ve had a number of conversations with Secretary Tillerson to urge the State Department to renegotiate, and I’m pleased to see that effort move forward. By addressing the ‘Canadian Entitlement’ and other issues we can form a treaty that will serve both nation’s for generations to come.” NOTE: The Congresswoman has played a major role in urging the past two administrations to reopen the conversation on the Columbia River Treaty. In February of 2016, her and Rep. Peter DeFazio (D-OR), as Co-Chairs of the Northwest Energy Caucus, wrote a letter to President Obama in which they said, “The agreement between Canada and the United States serves as a framework for the mutual benefit of both countries, providing low-cost hydropower generation, flood control, and economic growth.” In October of this year, the Congresswoman led a letter with a bipartisan group of Pacific Northwest Representatives to Ambassador David MacNaughton to urge renegotiation. The letter states, “The 1964 treaty has been in place for fifty-three years and has surpassed its balance. Specifically, there is an imbalance of benefits between our two nations in regards to the “Canadian Entitlement”, which requires Pacific Northwest electricity consumers to pay Canada for downstream power benefits. It is estimated that our constituents overpay this entitlement by ten times the reciprocal benefit.” Earlier this year, the Congresswoman also spoke directly to Secretary of State Rex Tillerson about the importance of renegotiation. # # #
12.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (December 4, 2017) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement on the House’s motion to go to conference on the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R. 1), legislation the House and Senate have passed to reform our broken tax code. “We are on track to send a pro-growth and pro-family overhaul of our nation’s tax code to the President’s desk by Christmas. The work to reconcile the differences between the House and Senate versions will begin soon. Just like at every other key stage in this process, we will continue to put Americans first with meaningful reforms that empower families, including those who have children with disabilities, to save and plan for their future.” NOTE: Rep. McMorris Rodgers is working to ensure the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act is written with families who have children with disabilities in mind. Key provisions of McMorris Rodgers’s “ABLE 2.0” legislative package are included in both the House and Senate versions of the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act, including the ABLE to Work Act and ABLE Financial Planning Act. ABLE to Work Act: This legislation would allow an ABLE beneficiary who earns income for a job to save up to the Federal Poverty Level, which is currently at $11,770, in addition to their annual contribution limit of $14,000. This is targeted to assist only those disabled individuals who cannot contribute to an employer retirement saving plan. ABLE Financial Planning Act: This legislation allows for rollovers from a 529 to a 529A account, but still maintains the annual contribution limit of $14,000. This would allow individuals who may have been saving for their child’s college tuition, which is now no longer needed, to rollover up to the maximum contribution each year until the 529 account has been depleted. The Congresswoman has also made clear the areas where she’d like to see changes to the House-passed version of the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act during the conference committee process. Specifically, she has previously stated she agrees with the Senate’s approach to the tax exempt status of graduate student tuition waivers as well as Private Activity Bonds used to finance low-income housing. She is hopeful that both of these issues can be resolved during this process and reflected in the final bill. # # #
11.30.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (November 30, 2017) – In a productive month, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) ushered an impressive three pieces of legislation through the U.S. House of Representatives. She also welcomed House Veterans Affairs Committee Chairman Phil Roe (R-TN) to Spokane to meet with veterans and develop action items for the next year to help get Eastern Washington veterans the best care imaginable. By bringing more doctors to help rural and urban underserved areas, encouraging the expansion of clean, renewable energy through hydropower, and providing options for families of children with disabilities, the Congresswoman is leading and getting things done on issues that matter to the people of Eastern Washington she has the honor of representing. PASSED: Training the Next Generation of Primary Care Doctors Act of 2017 On November 3rd, the House passed a package of legislation to reauthorize the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) that included legislation from the Congresswoman to extend the Teaching Health Center Graduate Medical Education (THCGME) program, which supports programs like the Spokane Teaching Health Clinic and many others across the country. Not only did McMorris Rodgers’ bill extend the program, it doubled funding to preserve current programs and provide for the expansion of new programs in Eastern Washington and across the country. Find more information here. PASSED: Hydropower Policy Modernization Act of 2017 On November 8, the Congresswoman’s bill to promote clean, renewable, reliable, and affordable hydropower passed the House by a bipartisan vote of 257-166. Hydropower provides roughly 70 percent of the energy in Washington state, and this legislation would streamline the hydropower relicensing process to encourage continued use and expansion of hydropower resources. People all across Washington state, including Avista Corp. supported this bill. Read more about this effort here. PASSED: ABLE Financial Planned Act On November 16, when the House passed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, it included the Congresswoman’s ABLE Financial Planning Act. For families with disabilities, being able to save without jeopardizing important benefits is a top concern. This legislation would make it so, as the Congresswoman says, “people who have been saving for their child’s college tuition can rollover that money into a savings account specifically created for individuals with disabilities.” These already established ABLE Accounts allow families and individuals to save up to a certain level without impacting the children’s disability or health benefits. Learn more about the ABLE Financial Planning Act here. RECAP: CHAIRMAN PHIL ROE VISITS SPOKANE On Friday, November 17, the Congresswoman welcomed House Veterans Affairs Committee Chairman Dr. Phil Roe (R-TN) to Spokane. In June, as a result of the Congresswoman’s work, staff from the committee came to the Spokane VA to look for ways to improve the care Eastern Washington veterans are receiving. In this follow up visit, the Chairman and Congresswoman met with local veterans, staff at the Mann-Grandstaff VA Medical Center in Spokane, and local community leaders to identify action items for the Spokane VA and hear about the most pressing issues facing the veteran community. Action items for the Spokane VA: Increase number of Graduate Medical Education slots Acquire funding and approval for 24/7 urgent care unit Move toward Teaching Hospital designation Continue making improvements to the Veterans Choice Program for veterans in rural and underserved areas Through building a partnership between the Spokane VA, the WSU College of Medicine, and the Spokane community, the Congresswoman hopes to provide an ecosystem that provides veterans with the best care possible, aids in the development of local students and doctors, and boosts the local economy. The Congresswoman is eager to continue these important efforts and will work every day to get results for people in Eastern Washington. # # #
11.30.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (November 30, 2017) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 3017, the Brownfields Enhancement, Economic Redevelopment, and Reauthorization Act of 2017. This legislation, sponsored by Rep. David McKinley (R-WV) would extend the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Brownfields Program which aids in the redevelopment of closed properties and other commercial sites like the Spokane Riverfront Park in Spokane, Washington. “With brownfields in every Congressional district, this program impacts communities all across the country. We’ve seen the benefits right here in Eastern Washington. The grants from this program can revitalize and renew old properties, create jobs, grow the local economy, and retain some of the great history throughout our communities. Thank you to Rep. David McKinley for leading in this effort that touches each and every corner of America.” NOTE: In May of 2017, Spokane’s Riverfront Park received a $600,000 grant from the Brownfields Program to assist in environmental related cleanup efforts. # # #
11.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (November 29, 2017) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed H.Res. 630 – Requiring each Member, officer, and employee of the House of Representatives to complete a program of training in workplace rights and responsibilities each session of each Congress, and for other purposes. This important legislation requires all Members and staff to complete mandatory anti-harassment and anti-discrimination training during each session of Congress. “I’m deeply troubled by the reports of sexual harassment on Capitol Hill and elsewhere. This behavior is unacceptable in any form, and I’m glad the House is taking steps to make sure our work environments are safe and welcoming for everyone. Thank you to Rep. Comstock for putting forward a resolution that holds Congressional workplaces to the highest of standards.” This morning, during a press conference on Capitol Hill, Rep. McMorris Rodgers spoke in support of this resolution. You can watch her remarks here: She said, “Like many Americans, I’m troubled by the reports of sexual harassment and inappropriate behavior in the workplace. It’s rocking Capitol Hill as well as elsewhere around the country. This is not who we are. We can and we must do better. “We need to take a step back to the larger issue of civility and how we treat each other in this country. There are many genuinely good people serving in Congress as the trusted representatives of the people, and we should be leading by example and we should be held to a higher standard. We must walk the talk, and at the end of the day this is about respect and a commitment to civility to everyone. Each one of us must be doing our part to lead by example and rebuild the moral fabric of our country. This is about the Golden Rule. This is about restoring trust.” NOTE: This resolution changes the rules that govern exclusively the House of Representatives, so it will take effect immediately and does not need to go before the Senate or be signed by the President. # # #
11.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (November 28, 2017) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) announced the hiring of a new southern district representative to serve in her Walla Walla office. Victor Valerio will join the Congresswoman’s team beginning next Monday, December 4, and will oversee the Walla Walla regional office and outreach efforts throughout Walla Walla, Columbia, Asotin, Garfield, and Whitman Counties. “I’m so excited to have Victor join our team so we can continue the great work that’s been happening in the southern part of Washington’s Fifth Congressional District,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Victor’s unique life experience will be a great addition to our team and I look forward to him getting to work next week as a resource to people and groups in the Walla Walla Valley and beyond.” ABOUT VICTOR VALERIO: Victor was born in Mexico and immigrated to the United States in 2004. His family settled in Milton-Freewater where he attended McLoughlin High School. Victor became a U.S. citizen in 2014. Most recently, he served as a patient care coordinator for Providence Medical Group in their pediatric outreach clinic. Victor will serve as a permanent staff member in the Congresswoman’s Walla Walla regional office (26 E. Main Street, Suite 2) where he will provide direct support to people in the community who need assistance or want to have their voice heard. He will also serve as a representative on the Congresswoman’s behalf to many groups and community events through these five counties. # # #
11.16.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (November 16, 2017) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (H.R. 1), the House plan to provide tax relief to millions of hardworking families and create more jobs, fairer taxes, and bigger paychecks. “This is a historic moment. It’s been 31 years since the tax code was fundamentally reformed,” said McMorris Rodgers. “We’re looking out for middle class families who deserve the same chance as everyone else to get ahead. The hardworking men and women of America deserve a tax code that puts them first. We’ve created a plan that rewards hard work, encourages innovation and entrepreneurship, and levels the playing field so that everyone plays by the same rules. “Our plan to lift the tax burden off Americans puts more money back in people’s paychecks and helps Americans go from garage to global success. We’re bringing jobs back from overseas and strengthening Main Street. Our plan simplifies the tax code, closes loopholes, and creates peace of mind for Americans everywhere. “Thank you to all of the House Ways and Means members, and especially Chairman Brady, for putting forth a plan that delivers significant tax relief and rewrites the tax code to put hard working Americans first.” NOTE: This morning, Rep. McMorris Rodgers joined America’s Newsroom to preview today’s historic vote on pro-family, pro-growth tax reform and President Trump’s visit to Capitol Hill. Watch the full interview here. To learn more about the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, visit FairandSimple.gop or text “Tax Reform” to 50589. # # #
11.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (November 14, 2017) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today released the following statement after the House passed the final version of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2018 (H.R. 2810). This bill rebuilds our military through equipment modernization and improves readiness. It also reforms the way that the Pentagon does business and gives them the tools they need to make better, more responsible decisions. “After a half-decade of cuts, we are strengthening our military readiness and restoring our military might. The men and women who keep us safe are our country’s most valuable asset, and we have a responsibility to provide them the resources, care, and pay raise they need, earned, and deserve,” said McMorris Rodgers. “We are putting Americans’ safety and security first by providing much-needed resources to effectively defend our country.” NOTE: This legislation provides troops with the biggest pay raise in 8 years, permanently preserves Special Survivor Indemnity Allowance (SSIA) to more than 60,000 surviving military spouses, reinvests in our military readiness and troops, and implements new oversight tools as the Department of Defense undergoes its first audit. This legislation passed the House today by an overwhelmingly bipartisan vote of 356 to 70. This legislation is now one step closer to the President’s desk. # # #
11.09.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (November 9, 2017) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today released the following statement after her ABLE Financial Planning Act was included in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act that passed the House Ways and Means Committee this afternoon. “This is must-pass legislation to provide tax relief to families and I’m so pleased to see my legislation, the ABLE Financial Planning Act, included in the bill that passed today out of Ways and Means,” said McMorris Rodgers. “This means that people who have been saving for their child’s college tuition can rollover that money into a savings account specifically created for individuals with disabilities. We need to be empowering those with disabilities and their families to save and invest in their futures, and that’s exactly what this bill will help do.” NOTE: In April, the Congresswoman introduced a bipartisan package of legislation known as ABLE 2.0. This package included three bills, one of which was the ABLE Financial Planning Act (H.R. 1897). This legislation allows for rollovers from a 529 to a 529A account, but still maintains the annual contribution limit of $14,000. This would allow individuals who may have been saving for their child’s college tuition, which is now no longer needed, to rollover up to the maximum contribution each year until the 529 account has been depleted. # # #
11.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (November 8, 2017) – Hydropower helped build the Northwest, and still today it provides the region with clean, renewable, reliable, and affordable energy to power homes, businesses, and communities. Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers’ (WA-05) Hydropower Policy Modernization Act (H.R. 3043) passed the United States House of Representatives by a vote of 257-166. This legislation would streamline hydropower relicensing processes in America to encourage the continued use and expansion of low-cost, renewable hydroelectric energy in Washington state and beyond. “Hydropower is crucial to our way of life in the Pacific Northwest. It’s clean, it’s renewable, it’s reliable, and it’s one of the reasons why we in Eastern Washington enjoy some of the most affordable electricity rates in America,” said McMorris Rodgers. “This bill won’t change outcomes or environmental standards. Instead, it will speed up the relicensing process and save time and money. Providing relief from these costly and time-consuming regulatory processes will encourage investment in hydropower so we can continue to support this clean energy in our region.” In a letter of support for the Hydropower Policy Modernization Act, Avista Corp. in Spokane said, “H.R. 3043, among its other provisions, facilitates constructive engagement in the licensing process by affirmatively designating FERC as the coordinating agency… Moreover, it gives licensees the incentive to invest in technological upgrades to a licensed project and to undertake environmental measures beyond the requirements of the existing license – all in an environmentally-sensitive manner.” You can read the full letter of support from Avista Corp. here. Today on the House floor, the Congresswoman spoke during debate of the legislation, offering her rationale on the importance of this legislation to Eastern Washington. Watch her full remarks here: THE BACKGROUND: On average in the U.S. it takes only 18 months to license a new natural gas facility but can take up to eight years or longer to license a new hydropower project or relicense an existing facility. The existing hydropower fleet provides good-paying jobs across the country and produces enough low-cost electricity to power 85 million homes and avoids nearly 190 million metric tons of CO2 emissions each year. The U.S. Department of Energy’s 2016 Hydropower Vision Report identified nearly 50 GW of new hydropower and pumped storage growth potential by 2050 GW, which would avoid 5.6 billion metric tons of CO2 emissions, save an estimated $209 million in avoided damages, and create more than 195,000 jobs. Despite these substantial benefits, U.S. hydropower resources are at risk due to an outdated and lengthy licensing process for both proposed new projects and existing projects requiring reauthorization. THE SOLUTION: H.R. 3043 addresses these problems without compromising environmental protections. The bill improves the process by promoting accountability and transparency, requiring greater cooperation among federal and state agencies, and reducing needless duplication of efforts. This bill would streamline the hydropower relicensing process by allowing FERC to extend preliminary 4-year permits for hydropower projects and require FERC to establish a process for setting a schedule for a licensing review. Finally, the bill would also modify the federal definition of renewable energy to correctly include hydroelectric energy. Without these hydropower licensing process improvements we risk losing investment opportunities in new hydropower infrastructure which would provide consumers with affordable electricity and expand the use of clean, renewable energy. # # #
11.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (November 3, 2017) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released this statement following House passage of legislation to reauthorize the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), which included her bill to extend the Teaching Health Center Graduate Medical Education (THCGME) program: “Bringing more physicians to Eastern Washington is one of my top priorities. Teaching Health Centers, like the Spokane Teaching Health Clinic, can help address the stark reality of doctor shortages in rural and underserved areas. The program is vital to the health of our communities, which is why I’ve fought every step of the way to ensure it can continue with not just sufficient funding, but a significant increase,” said McMorris Rodgers. “I’m also proud that we moved the Children’s Health Insurance Program over the finish line here in the House, and I hope the Senate considers it immediately. It provides much needed certainty to the parents of more than 60,000 kids in Washington state whose children rely on the program for health care coverage.” This morning, the Congresswoman spoke on the House floor in favor of this legislation. You can see her remarks here: NOTE: In July, Rep. McMorris Rodgers introduced the Training the Next Generation of Primary Care Doctors Act of 2017 to reauthorize the THCGME program. In October, this legislation passed the House Energy and Commerce Committee as part of a larger package of bills. Currently, the physician-to-population ratio in rural communities is staggering. Only about 10% of physicians practice in these areas, even though almost a quarter of the population lives there. Compared to doctors who train in the traditional Medicare program, those trained at Teaching Health Centers are 60% more likely to practice primary care and 30% more likely to work in underserved areas. Reauthorizing this program will help to meet the health care needs of rural and underserved communities through improved access to primary care medical professionals. Outside support for this legislation is widespread. You can find a list of supporters and their statements here. # # #
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (November 2, 2017) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) and Congressman Dave Loebsack (IA-02) introduced the bipartisan Protecting Home Oxygen & Medical Equipment (HOME) Access Act of 2017, to preserve access to durable medical equipment (DME), especially in rural communities, by addressing severe cuts to reimbursement rates. Specifically, this legislation delays the July 2016 cuts to DME payments in rural areas, which slashed Medicare reimbursement rates by more than 50 percent on average, and shields payment rates for oxygen concentrators from an outdated regulation that was never intended to apply to rates derived from the Competitive Bidding Program (CBP). “From seniors to those with disabilities or chronic conditions, people in Eastern Washington rely on durable medical equipment to go about their daily lives—whether it’s to simply walk around without falling or to breathe normally when their lungs can no longer do it on their own,” said McMorris Rodgers. “But this equipment cannot save lives if it isn’t made available to those who need it most, especially in rural communities where we know barriers to access health care already exist. I’m proud to introduce this bipartisan legislation to rectify these cuts and provide relief for patients in Eastern Washington and across the county.” “Slashing reimbursement rates in rural areas for necessary medical equipment, such as oxygen machines, means many Iowans won’t have access to the often lifesaving equipment they need,” said Loebsack. “We must work to delay this regulation that hits rural communities hardest. I am pleased to work on a bipartisan basis with Rep. McMorris Rodgers and nearly 50 cosponsors to correct this decision and ensure patients, no matter where they live, have access to the medical equipment they need.” NOTE: In June, Rep. McMorris Rodgers sent a letter to Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Administrator Seema Verma and previous Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price to express concerns with the cuts. The letter states, “Over numerous years, CMS has made significant policy and regulatory changes that have resulted in significant reductions in reimbursement. We are concerned that these reductions may have caused access issues for Medicare beneficiaries and shifted costs to other areas of Medicare.” In response, CMS announced a policy change addressing one of the four concerns in the letter, but did not propose changes to the DME CBP. This legislation aims to solve two of the remaining policy requests. You can view the letter and its 154 bipartisan cosigners here. # # #
11.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (November 2, 2017) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the Ways and Means Committee announced the introduction of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, pro-growth and pro-family legislation that overhauls the outdated tax code to put working men and women first. Sponsored by Ways and Means Committee Chairman Kevin Brady (R-TX), the tax reform plan creates more jobs, fairer taxes, and bigger paychecks for all Americans. To read the bill, text “TAXREFORM” to 50589. “We have a historic opportunity to improve people’s lives and make our economy boom. This is must-pass legislation for Republicans,” said McMorris Rodgers. “We are lifting the tax burden off hardworking Americans and their families. Our plan will put more money in people’s pockets, reward and restore the dignity of hard work, and encourage innovation, creativity, and entrepreneurship. “Our tax reform plan is written with working families in mind. Our plan means more jobs, fairer taxes, and bigger paychecks, and that starts with helping those who are working hard but not getting ahead. American families deserve a tax code that doesn’t stand in the way of success. We want everyone to have the opportunity to realize their full potential and pursue their version of the American dream, and that begins with reforming the broken tax code. NOTE: Over the past year, the Congresswoman has been hosting a number of tax reform roundtable around Eastern Washington to hear directly from people about the issues they are facing in the tax code and the benefit that relief might bring to them and their families. The Congresswoman’s top priority is to hear directly from middle-class families about why tax reform is so important to them and their communities. For more information about the GOP’s tax reform plan visit FairandSimple.GOP or text “TAXREFORM” to 50589. Details for individuals and families: Lowers individual tax rates for low- and middle-income Americans to Zero, 12%, 25%, and 35% so people can keep more of the money they earn throughout their lives, and continues to maintain 39.6% for high-income Americans. Significantly increases the standard deduction to protect roughly double the amount of what you earn each year from taxes – from $6,350 to $12,000 for individuals and $12,700 to $24,000 for married couples. Eliminates special-interest deductions that increase rates and complicate Americans’ taxes – so an individual or family can file their taxes on a form as simple as a postcard. Takes action to support American families by: Establishing a new Family Credit – which includes expanding the Child Tax Credit from $1,000 to $1,600 to help parents with the cost of raising children to help all families with their everyday expenses. Preserving the Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit to help families care for their children and older dependents such as a disabled grandparent who may need additional support. Preserves the Earned Income Tax Credit to provide important tax relief for low-income Americans working to build better lives for themselves. Streamlines higher education benefits to help families save for and better afford college tuition and other education expenses. Continues the deduction for charitable contributions so people can continue to donate to their local church, charity, or community organization. Preserves the home mortgage interest deduction for existing mortgages and maintains the home mortgage interest deduction for newly purchased homes up to $500,000 – providing tax relief to current and aspiring homeowners. Continues to allow people to write off the cost of state and local property taxes up to $10,000. Retains popular retirement savings options such as 401(k)s and Individual Retirement Accounts so Americans can continue to save for their future. Repeals the Alternative Minimum Tax so millions of individuals and families will no longer have to worry about calculating their taxes twice each year and pay the higher amount. Provides immediate relief from the Death Tax by doubling the exemption and repealing the Death Tax after six years. Family-owned farms and businesses will no longer have to worry about double or triple taxation from Washington when they pass down their life’s work to the next generation. Details for job creators of all sizes: Lowers the corporate tax rate to 20% – down from 35%, which today is the highest in the industrialized world – the largest reduction in the U.S. corporate tax rate in our nation’s history. Reduces the tax rate on the hard-earned business income of Main Street job creators to no more than 25% – the lowest tax rate on small business income since World War II. Establishes strong safeguards to distinguish between individual wage income and “pass-through” business income so Main Street tax relief goes to the local job creators it was designed to help most. Allows businesses to immediately write off the full cost of new equipment to improve operations and enhance the skills of their workers – unleashing the growth of jobs, productivity, and paychecks. Protects the ability of small businesses to write off the interest on loans that help these Main Street entrepreneurs start or expand a business, hire workers, and increase paychecks. Retains the low-income housing tax credit that encourages businesses to invest in affordable housing so families, individuals, and seniors can find a safe and comfortable place to call home. Preserves the Research & Development Tax Credit – encouraging our businesses and workers to develop cutting-edge “Made in America” products and services. Strengthens accountability rules for tax-exempt organizations to ensure the churches, charities, foundations, and other organizations receiving tax-exempt status are focused on helping people and communities in need. Modernizes our international tax system so America’s global businesses will no longer be held back by an outdated “worldwide” tax system that results in double taxation for many of our nation’s job creators. Makes it easier and far less costly for American businesses to bring home foreign earnings to invest in growing jobs and paychecks in our local communities. Prevents American jobs, headquarters, and research from moving overseas by eliminating incentives that now reward companies for shifting jobs, profits, and manufacturing plants abroad. The House Ways and Means Committee will mark up the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on November 6, 2017. CLICK HERE to read the full legislative text of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. CLICK HERE to read the section-by-section summary of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. CLICK HERE to read the policy highlights in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. CLICK HERE to read examples of how the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will help Americans of all walks of life CLICK HERE to read how the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will help Middle-Income Americans. CLICK HERE to read how the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will help Main Street businesses. CLICK HERE to read how the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act will unleash American competitiveness and create American jobs. # # #
11.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (November 1, 2017) – In recent years, Washington state has experienced some of the worst wildfire seasons in state history. These fires impact health and safety, and destroy the environment. Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) helped pass the Resilient Federal Forests Act of 2017, which would encourage active forest management and fix “fire borrowing” at the Forest Service. “The Forest Service has warned us that our forests are in terrible shape,” said McMorris Rodgers. “When you don’t actively manage forests, diseased and dying trees serve as fuel for the next major fire. We’ve seen these catastrophic fires right here in Eastern Washington, and we must take action to protect our forests and reduce our risk of fire. This legislation proposes real solutions to create healthier, more resilient forests.” Today, Rep. McMorris Rodgers spoke on the House floor in support of this legislation and responsible forest management. In case you missed it, you can watch her remarks here: Note: Currently, at least 58 million acres of federal forests are at high or very high risk of severe wildfire. More than 1.1 million acres of federal forest are in need of restoration and last year, the Forest Service was able to treat less than 204,000 acres, a fraction of what is needed. The Resilient Federal Forests Act includes language from the Congresswoman’s FORESTS Act of 2017. Building on the success of collaborative projects like the Colville National Forest A-Z project, this legislation calls for the Forest Service, local leaders, and private companies to work together to expedite environmental review. The legislation also includes a provision that encourages widespread collaboration between industry, conservation, and research institutions on the future of Cross Laminated Timber (CLT). Earlier this year, the Congresswoman introduced legislation to incentivize the use of CLT. Learn more about the bipartisan Timber Innovation Act here. # # #
10.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (October 26, 2017) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement following the House passage of H.Con.Res. 71, Establishing the congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027. “We are unlocking our historic opportunity to unleash everyone’s potential through comprehensive tax reform,” said McMorris Rodgers. “A fair, simple tax code is how we help lift up those who are left behind. America was built on freedom, opportunity, and hard work, and it’s time our tax code reflected those principles.” # # #
10.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (October 25, 2017) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) testified before the House Appropriations Committee’s Subcommittee on Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education about her son Cole and the tremendous potential that research on Down syndrome can bring to millions of Americans. As the Congresswoman explained to the committee, this research isn’t just about Down syndrome, instead, it can help answer many questions about a variety of diseases and other irregularities within the human genome. In case you missed it, you can watch the Congresswoman’s testimony here: Note: Funding for Down syndrome research makes up just one-hundredth of a percent of the budget at the National Institutes of Health (NIH). This research can unlock the answers to many other questions about some very common health challenges. Consider this: 50% of babies with Down syndrome are born with congenital health defects although there’s no case of someone with Down syndrome suffering from a heart attack. Children with Down syndrome have a higher likelihood of developing juvenile leukemia although those with Down syndrome do not have solid tumor cancers. Thanks to improved medical care, there has been a dramatic increase in life expectancy among those with Down syndrome, however, almost every individual develops Alzheimer’s or dementia. # # #
10.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (October 24, 2017) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) and Senator Marco Rubio (R-FL) today introduced the Spurring Business in Communities Act. This legislation would encourage investment in small businesses in Eastern Washington through incentivizing Small Business Investment Companies (SBICs) to form and invest in Florida, Washington state, and communities all across the country. “Small businesses are the backbone of our economy. They provide 55 percent of jobs in America, and account for 1.3 million employees in Washington state alone,” said McMorris Rodgers. “SBICs serve an important function in providing capital and support to these small businesses, but there are currently none here in Washington state. Instead, SBICs are primarily located in large urban and finance centers of the U.S., which only further concentrates lending and investment activity. This legislation will change that by easing the process for SBICs to form in our state, invest in people in our community, grow our local economy, and create jobs.” “I want Florida’s entrepreneurs and investors to be able to stay and invest here in Florida’s economy, instead of feeling like they are being shoe-horned into Wall Street and Silicon Valley jobs away from home,” said Rubio. “Our bill will help reduce America’s investor gap by removing regionally biased obstacles investors face when applying to become a licensed Small Business Investment Company.” “SBICs have an extraordinary record of empowering small businesses to grow and create jobs. We applaud Senator Rubio and Representative McMorris Rodgers for helping SBICs bring prosperity and hope to small businesses in every community in the country,” said Brett Palmer, President of the Small Business Investor Alliance, which represents SBICs nationwide. NOTE: SBICs were established by the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 to provide for government support of small businesses throughout the country, backed by the Small Business Administration. This legislation would increase the ability of the SBA to provide widespread geographic support and increase the SBA’s accountability to Congress. Specifically, it would exempt SBIC applicants from under-licensed states from full capital requirements, give first priority to new applicants from under-licensed and under-financed states, and establish annual reporting requirements on the SBA’s progress toward increasing the geographic dispersion of SBICs. # # #
10.19.2017	SPOKANE, WA (October 19, 2017) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) and Georgia Congressman Doug Collins (GA-09) joined the Peaceful Communities Roundtable in Spokane, Washington, for a Criminal Justice Reform Forum to learn from leaders in the field and hear stories from people who’ve experienced issues within the criminal justice system in America. “I’m so thankful to have Rep. Doug Collins join us for this important discussion. The only way to do this right is to hear directly from people who’ve experienced it, to listen, and to hear their stories and ideas,” said McMorris Rodgers. “This was a great discussion and I look forward to continuing these important conversations about the future of our Eastern Washington community.” “Thoughtful justice reform involves listening to our neighbors. It means we’re committed to learning from the people who see opportunities to build stronger, safer communities,” said Collins. “Conversations like these open the doors to solutions for preventing crime and promoting compassion, and I’m grateful to join my friend Cathy McMorris Rodgers and the Spokane community for today’s exchange.” In case you missed it, you can watch some of the forum on the Congresswoman’s Facebook page here: # # #
10.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (October 18, 2017) – Yesterday, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus, joined fellow Co-Chair Congressman Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (GA-02) at Fort Benning in Columbus, Georgia for the annual bipartisan Congressional Military Family Summit. The two welcomed Department of Defense officials, representatives from military service organizations, staff from five Congressional offices, and over 200 military family and service members for this year’s summit at the National Infantry Museum near Fort Benning. “Supporting our military families is a top priority of mine because the strength of our military is drawn from the strength of our military families,” said Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers. “This summit and caucus allow us to pay special attention to the unique and diverse issues that military families face, hear their stories, and work to find solutions. I’m so thankful to Congressman Sanford D. Bishop for being a partner in this effort and for hosting this year’s summit at Fort Benning. As a team, we can continue to look for solutions to strengthen our military families and make their lives a little easier.” “As Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus and a member of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Military Construction and Veterans Affairs, I take seriously my obligation to military families and veterans in Georgia and nationwide,” said Congressman Bishop. “It is our responsibility to listen, learn, and ensure military family voices are heard on Capitol Hill. Spousal employment, state licensure, healthcare and caregiving, and military child education provide unique challenges for military families, and as legislators, we must see to it that the policies we craft ease the burden for those families that support our national defense.” “We have made great strides in addressing the challenges facing military families since the founding the Congressional Military Family Caucus in 2009,” continued Congressman Bishop. “However, there always remains room for improvement. The Military Family Summit continues to provide military families a seat at the table and helps Congress and the Executive Branch uncover and address emerging concerns in a swift and productive manner.” NOTE: The Congressional Military Family Caucus is a bipartisan group consisting of more than 80 Members of Congress dedicated to educating elected officials, congressional staffers, senior military leaders, and the public on the unique issues facing military families today. Keynote panelists at the summit included General (Ret.) Lloyd Austin, former Commander of CENTCOM and Vice Chief of Staff of the Army; Joyce Raezer, Executive Director of the National Military Association; and Major General Jeffrey Clark from the Defense Health Agency. The full program, including all panelists and moderators, for the 2017 Military Family Summit can be found here. # # #
10.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (October 12, 2017) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today voted to send much-needed funding for areas impacted by recent disasters across the country. The Additional Supplemental Appropriations for Disaster Relief Requirements Act, which passed the House today, sends $36.5 billion toward hurricane relief and wildfire suppression. “I think of what’s happened to Puerto Rico, and my heart goes out to all of the families and people whose lives were turned upside down,” said McMorris Rodgers. “And it’s not just Puerto Rico. Thousands of people in Texas, Florida, Louisiana, and the U.S. Virgin Islands also lost everything in the devastation following Hurricanes Maria, Harvey, and Irma. This aid package will help them with the long road to rebuilding and recovery. “I’m also pleased to see $576.5 million going toward fighting the wildfires that are destroying the West. Washington state experienced devastating fires this year, and right now we’re seeing what’s happening in California, and our hearts break for them. This relief package will help fight the fires and assist in the recovery efforts.” Yesterday, Rep. McMorris Rodgers joined Rep. Dan Newhouse (WA-04) for a Facebook Live to talk about the recent fires and the need for this important disaster funding to help communities, like those in the Pacific Northwest, recover from and fight fires. You can watch it here: NOTE: Tomorrow, Rep. McMorris Rodgers will join Speaker of the House Paul Ryan on a trip to Puerto Rico to see the damage and recovery efforts taking place. # # #
10.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (October 12, 2017) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), House Veterans Affairs Committee Chairman Phil Roe (R-TN), and Congressman Bruce Poliquin (R-ME) introduced the Ethical Patient Care for Veterans Act of 2017. This legislation requires Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) medical professionals to report directly to state licensing boards if they witness unacceptable or unethical behavior from other medical professionals at the VA. The legislation is in response to the alarming USA Today article out yesterday that revealed the VA failed to disclose bad medical practitioners to the public, risking the public’s exposure to these dangerous doctors. “These newest reports out of the VA are deeply troubling,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Our veterans deserve the best care imaginable, but as we’ve seen, far too often that’s not the case. This bill will help reform the culture at the VA by holding bad actors accountable and keeping them from continuing these mistakes at the VA or elsewhere. We should be rolling out the red carpet to our nation’s heroes in Eastern Washington and around the country, and that starts with ensuring that the best and brightest are at the VA caring for our veterans.” “The findings of the USA Today investigation are intolerable,” said Chairman Roe. “The committee has long been concerned about VA’s settlement agreements, and even held a hearing on the topic last year. While I can appreciate VA’s recent decision to more closely vet settlement agreements, malfeasance within the department will not be ignored. It certainly cannot be rewarded and hidden from state licensing boards. As a physician, I find this deeply troubling, and I thank Reps. McMorris Rodgers and Poliquin for their leadership on this issue.” “These most recent reports are nothing short of appalling,” said Congressman Poliquin. “Our Maine Veterans depend on their services at Togus and other VA facilities across our State for critical care, and it is absolutely unacceptable for them to ever be subjected to this kind of medical malpractice. We must have accountability at the VA, to ensure our Veterans are always getting the best care possible, and I am proud to be working on the Veterans Affairs’ Committee to do that. I’m now pleased to work with Chairwoman McMorris Rodgers and Chairman Roe to help prevent this unacceptable behavior from occurring again.” NOTE: Currently, if the VA receives a report of substandard health care practices, it takes at least 100 days to decide whether to refer the matter to a state licensing board. This legislation will require timely reporting to state licensing boards so there is proper notice of these serious allegations. As reported by USA Today, “the VA — the nation’s largest employer of health care workers — has for years concealed mistakes and misdeeds by staff members entrusted with the care of veterans.” The article lays out a number of cases where doctors provided poor, unethical, or irresponsible care, and faced zero medical licensing reviews. By requiring malpractice to be reported to state licensing boards, this legislation ensures that if poor care happens, doctors and clinicians will no longer be shielded by the VA and could face consequences just like they do in private practice. In June, Rep. McMorris Rodgers had representatives from the House Veterans Affairs Committee come to the Spokane VAMC to conduct a site visit and see where improvements could be made. On the visit, they discovered a hole in the roof that had been ignored for years that was leaking into important electrical, heating, and cooling areas. The Congresswoman went back and got funding, and construction will soon begin to fix the hole and ensure our VA facilities are safe and healthy. Read more from the Spokesman-Review here. # # #
10.05.2017	WASHINGTON, DC (October 5, 2017) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed the Establishing the congressional budget for the United States Government for fiscal year 2018 and setting forth the appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2019 through 2027, (H.Con.Res. 71). This budget balances over 10 years and offers strong conservative reforms that put the government on a path to fiscal responsibility. “The budget is the key to unlocking tax reform, which means more jobs, fairer taxes, and bigger paychecks for hardworking American families,” said McMorris Rodgers. “I am proud to see this budget passed out of the House and look forward to putting forth a comprehensive tax reform plan that creates a simpler, fairer tax code that creates opportunities for everyone in our country.” # # #
10.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (October 5, 2017) – Yesterday, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) joined the House Energy and Commerce (E&C) Committee for a markup of several important health care bills including the reauthorization of the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP), the Teaching Health Center Graduate Medical Education (THCGME) program, and the Steve Gleason Enduring Voices Act. All three of these initiatives will bring great benefits to people in Eastern Washington, and each passed the Energy and Commerce Committee yesterday with the Congresswoman’s support. CHIP Reauthorization: The Children’s Health Insurance Program’s authorization expired on September 30. Despite that, states still have funding for the program through the end of the year. Yesterday, the reauthorization of the program passed the E&C Committee with only Republican support. At yesterday’s hearing, Rep. McMorris Rodgers offered remarks on the program. She said, “The HEALTHY KIDS Act provides long-term certainty to the parents of more than 60,000 kids in Washington state on CHIP, ensuring that their children will have access to comprehensive, low-cost health care services.” Teaching Health Center Graduate Medical Education Program: In July, the Congresswoman introduced the Training the Next Generation of Primary Care Doctors Act of 2017 to provide a long-term reauthorization of the THCGME program. This bipartisan effort, also spearheaded by Rep. Niki Tsongas (D-MA) and Rep. Jeff Denham (R-CA) passed the E&C Committee yesterday as part of the Community Health and Medical Professionals Improve Our Nation (CHAMPION) Act of 2017. “Bringing more physicians to Eastern Washington is one of my top priorities,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Our rural and urban underserved communities struggle to access the medical professionals they need and Teaching Health Center programs like the Spokane Teaching Health Clinic will help create a new generation of rural doctors—trained right here in our community.” Washington State University has played a major role in the development of the Spokane Teaching Health Clinic. New WSU Spokane Chancellor Daryll B. DeWald had this to say about the passage of the CHAMPION Act: “Washington State University made an early and strong commitment to the Spokane Teaching Health Center when the institution provided funds for the design and construction of the center aimed at tackling the physician shortage by increasing residency opportunities in central and eastern Washington. We are grateful for the leadership of Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers in increasing resident slots as a way to ensure physicians stay in the region once they complete their medical education and moving this bill through committee. WSU looks forward to working with her to ensure the proposal gets across the finish line.” Steve Gleason Enduring Voices Act: In May, the Congresswoman also introduced the Steve Gleason Enduring Voices Act which builds upon the successes of her Steve Gleason Act, which was signed into law in July 2015. The bill permanently fixes the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) policy that limited access to speech generating devices for people with degenerative diseases. Yesterday, this legislation passed the E&C Committee, moving one step closer to becoming law. Last week, Team Gleason released the following video in support of the Congresswoman’s Steve Gleason Enduring Voices Act: All of these initiatives will continue through the legislative process, moving closer and closer to becoming law. # # #
10.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (October 3, 2017) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today released the following statement after the House passed the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act (H.R. 36). The bill protects the unborn through prohibiting abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy and provides solutions that address the pain caused by all who are touched by abortion. “This is about the values that define us as Americans. We see potential in every life—and that includes the unborn,” said McMorris Rodgers. “The Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act is life-affirming legislation that shows compassion for the baby and the mother and acknowledges that every life has the right to reach its full potential.” NOTE: In 2015, Rep. McMorris Rodgers was co-chair of the March for Life. Right before the March, the decision was made to pull the 2015 pain-capable bill from the floor. At the March for Life, the Congresswoman publicly committed to the group that it would be passed out of the House before the end of the year. Thanks to her leadership, the bill came the floor and passed. # # #
09.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (September 28, 2017) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today voted in favor of legislation to provide for a 3-month extension of the Teaching Health Center Graduate Medical Education (THCGME) program at current funding levels. She released this statement following passage of the legislation: “I’m glad we moved forward with a short-term extension of the THCGME program, but we also must advance a long-term solution to provide certainty for our teaching health centers, their residents, and their patients—which is what my bill, the Training the Next Generation of Primary Care Doctors Act would do. Without a sustainable funding level of $157,000 per resident, per year, as recommended in the HRSA funded study published last year, the program will unravel.” During debate on the legislation, the Congresswoman gave remarks on the House floor on the importance of the THCGME program, but also the need to support long-term reauthorization at sustainable funding levels. In case you missed it, you can watch her full remarks here: NOTE: The short-term extension was included in H.R. 3823, the Disaster Tax Relief and Airport and Airway Extension Act of 2017. In July, the Congresswoman introduced the Training the Next Generation of Primary Care Doctors Act of 2017 to reauthorize the Teaching Health Center Graduate Medical Education (THCGME) program for three years. This legislation will also allow for the expansion of new programs within existing centers or the creation of entirely new teaching health centers while emphasizing the importance of establishing sustainable funding. The Congresswoman will continue to work to see this bill advanced and provide long-term certainty for the Spokane Teaching Health Clinic, and all those who rely on this important program. # # #
09.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (September 28, 2017) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 3823, the Disaster Tax Relief and Airport and Airway Extension Act of 2017, legislation to help American families and communities impacted by Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria. “To all those affected by the hurricanes, more help is on the way,” said McMorris Rodgers. “People lost their homes and cars, and some even lost their entire neighborhoods or place of work. The hurricanes wiped out people’s lives as they knew it, and this legislation provides critical tax relief to help free up resources so that Americans affected by the hurricanes can rebuild their lives. Our thoughts and prayers go out to all the people of Texas, Florida, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands during this challenging time.” # # #
09.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (September 27, 2017) – Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) of Washington’s Fifth Congressional District today released the following statement on House Republicans’ Unified Framework for Fixing our Broken Tax Code, which can be found on fairandsimple.gop: “We are on a mission to improve people’s lives, and the best way to create opportunities for hardworking Americans and their families is through simplified, permanent tax reform. People are struggling to find good-paying jobs, pay down school loans, or save more money for retirement. It’s about respecting and restoring the dignity that comes with work, by rewarding those who work hard so they can get ahead in life. Our plan creates jobs and raises wages, providing the peace of mind and access to financial stability that Americans have been searching for. We want moms and dads to be able to spend more time with their kids and less time at the kitchen table calculating their grocery budget. We want college grads to know that the world is open to them when they graduate – that nothing stands in their way of finding a good job. Our plan is about helping people rise and improving their quality of life. This is our once-in-a-generation opportunity to ensure America will continue to be the land of opportunity.” NOTE: This morning, the Congresswoman joined Maria Bartiromo on Fox Business Network to talk about the tax reform plan to raise wages and create jobs. As she told Maria, “A job is so fundamental. A job is what gives you opportunity. We want to empower everyone in our country to have the opportunity for a better life.” Watch her full interview here: To see the blueprint for yourself visit https://fairandsimple.gop/. # # #
09.25.2017	SPOKANE, WA (September 25, 2017) – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today announced staff-led mobile office hours for the months of October and November. The Congresswoman has offices in Colville, Spokane, and Walla Walla that are ready to welcome people from all over Eastern Washington, and mobile office hours allow folks outside of those areas the chance to connect directly with the Congresswoman’s staff without needing to travel. Dates, times, and locations for October and November mobile office hours are as follows: Monday, October 23: Republic: Northern Inn, 852 S Clark Ave, 2:00 PM – 3:30 PM Wednesday, October 25: Pomeroy: Garfield County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers, 789 Main St, 10:00 AM – 11:30 AM Dayton: Port of Columbia Office, Conference Room, 1 Port Way, 2:00 PM – 3:30 PM Wednesday, November 1: Colfax: Whitman County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers, 400 N Main St, 10:00 AM – 11:30 AM Clarkston: SEWEDA Office, Conference Room, 845 Port Way, 2:00 PM – 3:30 PM *Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers’ Veterans’ Services staff members, John Davis and Charlie Duranona, will be assisting veterans during the Mobile Office Hours in November.* Wednesday, November 8: Davenport: Lincoln County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers, 450 Logan St, 10:00 AM – 11:30 AM Newport: Pend Oreille County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers, 625 W 4th St, 2:00 PM – 3:30 PM *Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers’ Veterans’ Services staff members, John Davis and Charlie Duranona, will be assisting veterans during the Mobile Office Hours in November.* Staff will be ready to answer questions and field concerns about federal issues from anyone who wishes to come by, no appointments needed. As always, folks are still welcome to contact any of the three main offices in Eastern Washington. That contact information is below: Colville office: 555 South Main Street, Colville, WA 99114 Phone: 509-684-3481 Spokane office: 10 North Post Street, Suite 625, Spokane, WA 99201 Phone: 509-353-2374 Walla Walla office: 26 E. Main Street, Suite 2, Walla Walla, WA 99362 Phone: 509-529-9358 # # #
09.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (September 14, 2017) – This Spring, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) introduced the Steve Gleason Enduring Voices Act to permanently fix the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) policy that limited access to speech generating devices for people with degenerative diseases. Yesterday, this legislation went before the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health for consideration, passing the Subcommittee on a unanimous vote. During yesterday’s markup, the Congresswoman offered opening remarks on the need for this important legislation in helping those in Eastern Washington, and across the country, have access to this life-changing medical technology. This bill will now await consideration before the full Energy and Commerce Committee. NOTE: In 2014, after CMS regulatory changes threatened access to speech generating devices for those with ALS and other degenerative diseases, Spokane native Steve Gleason wrote an open letter to Congress. Shortly after, Steve’s mother, Gail Gleason, and members of the ALS Association approached Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers, expressing concerns of these policy changes and the impact they will have on people like Steve and all those who depend on these devices. In September of 2014, following these meetings, the Congresswoman led a bipartisan, bicameral letter to CMS with more than 200 Members of the House and Senate, regarding their arbitrary decision. Not long after, Rep. McMorris Rodgers formally introduced the Steve Gleason Act to temporarily address these issues within CMS. In July of 2015, the Steve Gleason Act became law, providing a two-year extension on coverage of speech generating devices by CMS. Now, the Steve Gleason Enduring Voices Act aims to provide a permanent fix and certainty for the countless Americans who rely on this important medical technology to be able to communicate and live full lives. Rep. McMorris Rodgers’ remarks as prepared: “Thank you, Mr. Chairman. “I want to thank the Committee for all their hard work not only my Steve Gleason Enduring Voices Act but the six other Medicare bills up for consideration today. “In 2015, this Congress passed the original Steve Gleason Act, it temporarily removed SGDs from the Medicare “Capped Rental” category protecting patient access to medically necessary Speech Generating Devices for those with severe communication disabilities. “Today, we have the opportunity to move towards making that protection permanent. “The Steve Gleason Enduring Voices Act returns SGDs to the “Routinely Purchased” DME payment category ensuring proper and effective coverage exists in the future for the patients who rely on these critical devices each and every day. “By supporting this legislation, you are giving a voice to the voiceless, because everyone deserves a voice; and everyone deserves to be heard. “Thank you, I yield back.” # # #
09.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (September 14, 2017) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) joined her colleagues in the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s Subcommittee on Health for a hearing to discuss federal health care workforce programs that support the next generation of health care providers. As part of this discussion, committee members talked about the future of the Teaching Health Center and Graduate Medical Education (THCGME) program, which expires on September 30, 2017. At today’s hearing, the Congresswoman spoke in support of the THCGME program and her legislation, the Training the Next Generation of Primary Care Doctors Act of 2017. Her legislation would reauthorize the THCGME program and allow for the expansion of new programs within existing centers or the creation of entirely new teaching health centers. In case you missed it, you can watch her remarks here: McMorris Rodgers said, “It’s estimated that we could have a nationwide doctor shortage of 23,000 by 2025. The physician-to-population ratio in rural communities, like mine in Eastern Washington, is especially stark. That’s why it’s so important that we reauthorize the Teaching Health Center and Graduate Medical Education program.” To learn more about this legislation, visit the Congresswoman’s website here: https://mcmorris.house.gov/teachinghealthcenters/ # # #
09.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (September 14, 2017) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today released this statement following the House passage of the Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act of 2018 (H.R. 3354) to fully fund the government and the priorities of the American people. “This is the first time in more than a decade that we have passed — on time — a complete government funding bill with Republican priorities and priorities for people in Eastern Washington. It is Congress’s Constitutional responsibility to exercise the power of the purse, and The Make America Secure and Prosperous Appropriations Act responsibly funds our government and prioritizes the needs of the American people. This bill includes pro-life protections, cuts wasteful government programs, funds national security, puts more money to NIH and other important health and research initiatives, allots funding to infrastructure projects, and stops harmful regulatory overreach by multiple agencies.” H.R. 3354 also provides critical funding and statutory reforms for a number of important priorities for Eastern Washington, including: Fully funding wildland fire suppression. $465 million for the Federal Payments In Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program. Removes the recovered gray wolf from the endangered species list, officially taking this issue out of the courts. $35.1 billion for the National Institutes of Health (NIH), which is a $1.1 billion increase, for vital biomedical research that will lead to new medical breakthroughs to cure diseases. New funding to proactively combat the opioid abuse epidemic. $1.6 billion for wall construction along the Southern border to meet the President’s request. Reaffirms the Congresswoman’s commitment to protecting the sanctity of life and Second Amendment rights. # # #
09.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (September 13, 2017) — Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) issued the following statement in reaction to the tragic events today at Freeman High School in Spokane County. “My heart goes out to the student who died today, their family, and to all those injured and impacted by the events at Freeman High School. Thank you to the police and first responders, to the medical teams, and to the school officials who helped take quick action to avoid further tragedy. Please pray for the victims and their families, and for Rockford, Valleyford, and the entire Spokane community.” # # #
09.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (September 13, 2017) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) joined U.S. Senators Steve Daines (R-MT) and John Barrasso (R-WY), U.S. Representative Greg Walden (R-OR), and U.S. Forest Service Chief Tony Tooke for a press conference on the recent fires in the Western U.S. and the need to move forward with important forest management reforms to keep forests healthy and fix the budgetary issues facing the Forest Service. “When we better manage our forests, we will help lower the risk of injury and death to our firefighters, the loss of homes, and so many others that are negatively impacted,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Fires don’t wait for people to evacuate their homes. Fires don’t wait for more federal funding. Forest fires act fast, and so should we. Our communities cannot wait any longer. Our lives and our homes depend upon it. So this is the year that I am hopeful, with everything that’s going on, we must come up with solutions.” NOTE: In May, Rep. McMorris Rodgers introduced her own package of forest reforms, the FORESTS Act of 2017, to reaffirm the federal government’s century-old commitment to responsibly manage forest lands for the benefit of rural counties. This legislation works in four ways. First, it promotes active forest management by requiring the Secretary of Agriculture to establish one or more Forest Active Management Areas (FAMAs) in each unit of the National Forest System, and requiring the U.S. Forest Service to produce at least half of the sustainable timber yield in each FAMA each year. Second, it encourages public-private partnerships between industry, environment, state, local, and tribal groups to responsibly manage federal forests. Third, it reauthorizes the Secure Rural Schools (SRS) program to continue the commitment of the federal government to rural communities by redirecting revenues from timber sales to be used for public schools, roads, and other municipal needs. Lastly, the legislation reforms the litigation process to allow projects negotiated by collaboratives to utilize an arbitration process to incentivize differing interests to work together on solutions to manage our forests. Learn more about this legislation on the Congresswoman’s website here. # # #
09.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (September 6, 2017) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after Representative Dave Reichert (R-WA) announced that this will be his last term in the U.S. House of Representatives. “Dave Reichert’s decades of public service – from capturing the Green River Killer to leading on some of the most important issues in Congress – made Washington state and America more secure and more free. Dave and I started in the House together and I’ll miss him in the other Washington, but I am forever grateful how he always put the country before himself to ensure a better future for every American. I wish him, Julie, and their family all the best in this next chapter.” # # #
09.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (September 6, 2017) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed disaster relief funding for Hurricane Harvey recovery efforts. “To everyone in Texas and Louisiana, know that you do not face the devastation of Hurricane Harvey alone. We are sending aid as quickly as possible that helps with the recovery efforts. Together, all of us are #TexasStrong.” Note: The bill contains the full amount requested by the Administration – totaling $7.85 billion in emergency funding, including $7.4 billion for FEMA’s Disaster Relief Fund (DRF). This will ensure FEMA can meet all current needs for response and recovery efforts, while also being prepared for any additional disasters that may arise. It also includes $450 million to support the Small Business Administration’s disaster loan program to assist small businesses and homeowners begin to rebuild. # # #
09.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (September 5, 2017) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today released this statement following the announcement to end the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program: “I’ve long said I didn’t agree with the way the previous administration went about enacting DACA, but we must protect children who are already here in this country and those who are currently protected under DACA. That principle is fundamental for me. It’s also clear that we must work in Congress to provide long-term certainty for DACA recipients, like those here in Eastern Washington, and recognize their unique circumstances and the value they bring to the country as students, job-holders, members of the military, and members of society. I’m committed to working with my colleagues in the House to establish common sense policies for children of immigrants, policies that recognize that many of these children came to our country at no fault of their own.” # # #
08.30.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (August 30, 2017) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) joined The Rite Aid Foundation, Spokane Mayor David Condon, and Spokane Police Chief Craig Meidl for a press conference announcing the launch of Rite Aid’s KidCents Safe Medication Disposal Program. The opioid epidemic and the cycle of addiction impacts communities all across the country, including those in Eastern Washington. This program will work to cut down on drug accessibility, medication misuse, and accidental poisoning by providing law enforcement agencies in areas served by Rite Aid with medication disposal units for people to safely dispose of expired or unwanted over-the-counter or prescription medications. “The cycle of addiction and drug abuse is heartbreaking. It’s something I continue to hear about as I meet with people all across Eastern Washington,” said McMorris Rodgers. “No one can fight this battle alone–nor should they have to. Solving this problem in our community will take the collaboration of local government, law enforcement, and outreach and advocacy groups. I applaud The Rite Aid Foundation for developing the KidCents Safe Medication Disposal Program and bringing it here to Spokane to help fight back against addiction and drug abuse in our community.” In case you missed it, you can watch the full press conference streamed live on the Congresswoman’s Facebook here: Rep. McMorris Rodgers’ remarks as delivered: “Good morning, everyone. I’m pleased to be here with Rite Aid Foundation, as well all of the leaders representing Rite Aid, with our Mayor, and with our Police Chief also to help launch this program — this very important program — as we take steps to combat drug abuse and misuse. “We read about it in the news regularly, and we hear the stories. And they’re heartbreaking as we hear these stories. “And I hear it all across Eastern Washington, so I am especially appreciative that Rite Aid Foundation is making this commitment here in Spokane. “Addiction doesn’t care about race, gender, political party, or age, and it’s in our communities, our homes. And it’s hurting our moms, our dads, our neighbors, our friends, and our students. “It’s estimated that 6.5 million Americans are abusing prescription drugs. “There’s a national state of emergency that’s been announced to help fight back against this trend in America. “I’m proud to have supported legislation to help provide more funding for programs and people that are working to solve these problems. “But we can’t stop there. “That’s why these kind of approaches, collaborative ways to help provide resources, education, support, are so important. “Last year, I met with an addiction survivor, Nick Yacoub, and he was suffering from addiction and recognized and shared with me that these are sick people trying to get better. “And in our meeting he said, ‘People in recovery are warriors, of a sort. We cannot do it alone, we have to find other warriors.’ “And that’s why I am proud to be here today, because I’m joining with some other warriors — people like our mayor, Mayor Condon, our Police Chief Meidl, and the Rite Aid Foundation as we’re launching this KidCents Safe Medication Disposal Program to help as a partner in this fight. “No one can battle alone — nor should they have to. “So, solving this problem in our community is going to take these kind of collaborative approaches with local government, law enforcement, and outreach and advocacy groups. “That’s what this program is going to do. It’s going to provide people here in Eastern Washington with the ability to safely dispose of prescription drugs, so they won’t fall in the wrong hands. “I’m proud to support this program and I am pleased with the commitment that has been made by the Rite Aid Foundation to help keep people, and especially our kids, safe and healthy and happy. “Thank you very much.” # # #
08.28.2017	Washington, D.C. (August 28, 2017) – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today announced staff-led mobile office hours for the month of September. The Congresswoman has offices in Colville, Spokane, and Walla Walla that are ready to welcome people from all over Eastern Washington, and mobile office hours allow folks outside of those areas the chance to connect directly with the Congresswoman’s staff without needing to travel. Dates, times, and locations for September mobile office hours are as follows: Wednesday, September 6th Colfax: Whitman County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers, 400 N Main St, 10:00 AM – 11:30 AM Clarkston: SEWEDA Office, Conference Room, 845 Port Way, 2:00 PM – 3:30 PM Wednesday, September 13th Davenport: Lincoln County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers, 450 Logan St, 10:00 AM – 11:30 AM Newport: Pend Oreille County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers, 625 W 4th St, 2:00 PM – 3:30 PM Staff will be ready to answer questions and field concerns about federal issues from anyone who wishes to come by, no appointments needed. As always, folks are still welcome to contact any of the three main offices in Eastern Washington. That contact information is below: Colville office: 555 South Main Street, Colville, WA 99114 Phone: 509-684-3481 Spokane office: 10 North Post Street, Suite 625, Spokane, WA 99201 Phone: 509-353-2374 Walla Walla office: 26 E. Main Street, Suite 2, Walla Walla, WA 99362 Phone: 509-529-9358 # # #
08.04.2017	SPOKANE, WA (August 3, 2017) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) announced another Department of Transportation grant for the Pullman-Moscow Regional Airport. This new grant will allocate an additional $10 million to the airport for expenses related to runway realignment construction costs. “This grant is another round of great news for the Pullman-Moscow Airport,” said McMorris Rodgers. “The runway realignment will enable new flights and opportunities to help connect Eastern Washington with the rest of the world. I’m happy see the Department of Transportation continue these infrastructure investments in our community.” This grant now marks more than $30 million in grant funding awarded from the Department of Transportation to airports in Southeastern Washington just this year, including $15 million to the Pullman-Moscow Airport earlier this year. You can find more information about the grant here. # # #
07.27.2017	WASHINGTON. D.C. (July 27, 2017) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed the Make America Secure Appropriations Act. This legislation provides funds for important defense, veterans, and energy-related programs. It also provides resources to strengthen and educate Capitol Police and reinforce their service keeping Members of Congress safe. “This bill is about keeping people in Eastern Washington, and all across America, safe at home and abroad,” said McMorris Rodgers. “The Make America Secure Appropriations Act prioritizes funds to ensure the United States is properly equipped to deal with security threats, honors our commitment to our nation’s veterans, and invests in our nuclear and energy security.” Of Importance to Eastern Washington: Military Construction and VA Appropriations Bill: Supports the VA Secretary’s new authority to fire or demote poorly performing employees and to recoup pay, benefits, and awards in case of malfeasance. Department of Defense Appropriations Bill: Fully funds the 2.4% pay raise for the troops, including those at Fairchild AFB. Includes funding for 15 KC-46A tankers. By providing this funding, we ensure that the process of manufacturing KC-46A’s stays on track and that Fairchild will still be on track to receive the additional squadron of KC-135 tankers. Provides funding for the Secretary of Defense to enter into intergovernmental agreements to provide health screenings in communities where PFOS/PFOA was previously used. Provides funds for the purpose of remediating PFOS/PFOA drinking water contamination and outreach and engagement with local communities impacted. Energy and Water Appropriations Bill: Includes important funding for nuclear security, including legislation to assist with Hanford cleanup and opening Yucca mountain as the nuclear repository. Includes language to require the administration to pick 5 new start studies to help with flood control/navigation. Includes language to help the Army Corps undertake important operations for our inland waterways, which is crucial for navigation and trade in Eastern Washington. # # #
07.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (July 27, 2017) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) joined the House Energy and Commerce Committee to discuss her legislation, the Common Sense Nutrition Disclosure Act of 2017 (H.R. 772). Introduced in January, the bill passed today out of committee on a strong bipartisan vote. During today’s markup, Rep. McMorris Rodgers delivered opening remarks on the importance of this legislation to small businesses and their customers in Eastern Washington, and across the country. In case you missed it, you can see her remarks here: Rep. McMorris Rodgers’ remarks as delivered: Thank you, Mr. Chairman I’d like to take this opportunity to thank Chairman Burgess and Chairman Walden for their attention to this important issue, and Representative Cardenas for co-leading this bill with me. Our joint efforts to clarify and improve these regulations and represent the needs of America’s small business owners is critical. When the FDA announced its final rule implementing a national menu labeling standard in 2014, the intent was twofold: Deliver customers increased access to nutrition information; and Establish a single, uniform national standard. However, in trying to create a uniform standard, the FDA’s 400-page rule attempts a one-size-fits-all approach to an industry as diverse as its ingredients. Under the current rule, every deli and salad bar offering, every possible pizza topping combination, will have to be calculated and their calorie count displayed on physical menus. This is problematic for two reasons. First, the “made-to-order” portion of the food industry offers endless, constantly changing combinations of ingredients. For some sandwich shops and pizzerias, the possible variations are in the tens of millions. The FDA wants these restaurants to put on paper all of these variations and their calorie counts, and have it publicly displayed in the restaurants. It’s an unrealistic use of these business owners’ time. Second, the digital and online ordering is now customers’ preferred method of ordering. Nearly 90 percent of orders in some restaurants are placed without an individual ever stepping foot in a brick-and-mortar store. So tell me, how does it make sense to force a restaurant to have a physical menu with calorie listings when 90 percent of your customers aren’t going to see it? And how does it make sense to force a customer to navigate millions of combinations to find the nutrition information that matches their order? Having reliable nutritional information available to consumers is important, which is why today’s discussion is on the practicality of existing regulations – and how we can improve them to benefit the lives of the American people. Over the years, I have met with stakeholders and other Member offices on this issue countless times. H.R. 772 is the result of those efforts. This bill is not about the merits of calorie counts. This bill is not and does not remove the requirement of calorie counts on menus. And this bill certainly does not make it more difficult for customers to receive nutritional information. This bill, at its very core, is about flexibility. H.R. 772 clarifies the intent of the FDA’s rule and uses technological innovations to provide needed flexibility to America’s business owners. It would permit restaurants, grocers, convenience stores to provide nutrition information in a way consistent with how they operate and how customers actually place orders – including by phone, online, or through mobile apps. By bringing this rule into the 21st Century, customers can trust they are getting the reliable information they need in an easy to access way. It also makes certain that small business owners and their employees are protected from frivolous lawsuits and criminal actions that could arise from an honest, inadvertent human error. An employee that puts too many pickles on a sandwich thereby increasing the calorie count stated on the menu should not face criminal charges or class-action lawsuits. This bipartisan legislation, which passed this Committee and the House last Congress, provides access to calorie information in a practical, flexible, and simpler manner by clarifying – not significantly altering – complicated regulations. I encourage my colleagues on both sides of the aisles to support H.R. 722 to bring certainty to the business community and the customers they serve. Thank you, and I yield back. # # #
07.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (July 27, 2017) – Veterans deserve to have the red carpet rolled out for them, which is why Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) and Massachusetts Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) today introduced the Modernization of Medical Records Access for Veterans Act of 2017. This legislation would direct the VA Secretary to carry out a pilot program establishing a secure, patient-centered, portable medical records system to allow veterans access to their own comprehensive medical records. “Our veterans deserve the best care imaginable,” said McMorris Rodgers. “When patients have the proper information about their medical history, they can work with their doctors to make the best decisions for themselves. These pilot programs will provide cards that veterans can bring with them to their doctors that contain all of their personal medical information. I’m proud to partner again with Rep. Seth Moulton (D-MA) to find bipartisan solutions to fix the problems at the VA and get our veterans the care they’ve earned.” “The men and women who have served our country deserve the same access to their own medical records that private citizens have,” said Moulton. “Making it easier, not harder, for service members to receive the best healthcare in the world should be a top priority. This bipartisan legislation helps bring veterans healthcare into the 21st century and I encourage my colleagues to join our effort.” Currently, patients in the private sector have access to their own medical records and enjoy the ease of sharing those directly with their doctors and having them updated immediately. It only makes sense that veterans have that same access. This legislation will ensure that veterans and their healthcare providers have access across the VA and community providers. It will improve veteran care and satisfaction, and provide the ability for medical records to be updated immediately for the veteran. NOTE: Last Congress, Rep. McMorris Rodgers and Rep. Seth Moulton introduced the Faster Care for Veterans Act, which was signed into law by President Obama at the end of last year. You can find more information about this legislation here. # # #
07.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (July 25, 2017) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 3364, the Countering Adversarial Nations Through Sanctions Act, which imposes new sanctions on Iran, Russia, and North Korea. The legislation holds Iran, Russia, and North Korea accountable for dangerous and threatening acts. “Today the People’s House sent a strong message to Iran, Russia, and North Korea: the United States firmly opposes their aggressive actions that undermine our national security and threaten our allies,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Their actions are a threat to freedom and democracy everywhere.” # # #
07.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (July 25, 2017) – Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) and Congresswoman Niki Tsongas (D-MA), along with Reps. Jeff Denham (R-CA), David Valadao (R-CA), Raul Ruiz, M.D. (D-CA), and Derek Kilmer (D-WA), introduced the Training the Next Generation of Primary Care Doctors Act of 2017 to reauthorize the Teaching Health Center Graduate Medical Education (THCGME) Program for three years. This legislation will also allow for the expansion of new programs within existing centers and the creation of entirely new teaching health centers while emphasizing the importance of establishing sustainable funding. “Bringing more physicians to Eastern Washington is one of my top priorities,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Our rural and urban underserved communities struggle to access the medical professionals they need and Teaching Health Center programs like the Spokane Teaching Health Clinic will help create a new generation of rural doctors—trained right here in our community.” “The benefits of Teaching Health Centers are widespread. They give aspiring primary care physicians – who are so crucial to providing personalized preventative care and ensuring health concerns are caught and treated early – the opportunity to train in a diverse setting,” said Tsongas. “And as I have seen in my own district at exceptional facilities like the Greater Lawrence Family Health Center, Teaching Health Centers provide communities with the next generation of physicians for their area.” “Expanding this program is critical to addressing the shortage of primary and specialty care physicians in rural and medically underserved communities,” said Denham. “This is one practical step toward ensuring we can both train and retain physicians in areas with the greatest need, such as California’s Central Valley.” “As fewer medical school graduates pursue careers in rural America, Teaching Health Centers provide critical health care services many families rely on,” said Valadao. “By reauthorizing the THC Graduate Medical Education (GME) Program, and prioritizing rural and medically underserved areas, our bill will ensure our most disadvantaged communities, like California’s Central Valley, have access to the primary care services they deserve.” “Developing pragmatic solutions that address the physician shortage crisis and encourage more bright, young medical students to practice in underserved and rural communities has been a top priority for me and my congressional district,” said Dr. Ruiz. “I have seen first-hand the dire effects of a lack of providers in underserved areas in my district. I am proud to work together in a bipartisan way to introduce the Training the Next Generation of Primary Care Doctors Act of 2017 that addresses the physician shortage and will help support and grow the much-needed next generation of providers in the Coachella Valley and across the nation.” “Teaching health centers are vital to ensuring that medical professionals can get the training they require to practice in areas where they are needed,” said Kilmer. “I’m proud to be part of a bipartisan effort to keep bringing quality medical care to our rural communities. Folks shouldn’t have to spend hours in the car just to see a doctor.” NOTE: Currently, the physician-to-population ratio in rural communities is stark. Only about 10% of physicians practice in these areas, even though almost a quarter of the population lives there. Compared to doctors who train in the traditional Medicare program, those trained at Teaching Health Centers are 82% more likely to practice primary care, 20% more likely to work in rural communities, and 55% more likely to work in underserved areas. This legislation will work to meet the needs of rural and underserved communities through access to primary care medical professionals. Outside support for this legislation is widespread. You can find a list of supporters and their statements here. # # #
07.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (July 14, 2017) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today released the following statement after the House passed the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2018 (H.R. 2810). An annual piece of legislation, the NDAA provides the readiness, resources, and reforms needed to strengthen the U.S. military. “The National Defense Authorization Act provides needed resources to rebuild our military so that Americans can be confident in their security and have the peace of mind knowing they are safe and free,” said McMorris Rodgers. “The NDAA will modernize our military equipment, restore our military readiness, and provide a much-deserved pay raise to our troops, like those who serve at Fairchild Air Force Base in Spokane, Washington.” Note: At a House Republican Leadership press conference on Wednesday, Rep. McMorris Rodgers said, “Fundamental to keeping this country safe is ensuring that our military men and women have the resource that they need.” Watch the full remarks here. # # #
07.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (July 12, 2017) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today announced a grant totaling $5.4 million from the Department of Transportation to the Walla Walla Regional Airport for rehabilitation of the taxiway. Rep. McMorris Rodgers released this statement following the announcement: “As we continue to commit ourselves to rebuilding our nation’s infrastructure, I’m excited that this grant will help bring immediate and much-needed funds to our community,” said McMorris Rodgers. “The Walla Walla Regional Airport helps connect Southeast Washington with the rest of the world. I was proud to lead this effort with Secretary Chao to reinvest in our critical infrastructure needs.” You can find more information about the grant here. NOTE: In May, the Department of Transportation announced the approval of a $15 million grant for the Pullman-Moscow Regional Airport, another major investment in Eastern Washington. You can find more information about that grant here. # # #
07.07.2017	Washington, D.C. (July 7, 2017) — Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today announced staff-led mobile office hours for the month of July. The Congresswoman has offices in Colville, Spokane, and Walla Walla that are ready to welcome people from all over Eastern Washington, and mobile office hours allow folks outside of those areas the chance to connect directly with the Congresswoman’s staff without needing to travel. Dates, times, and locations for July mobile office hours are as follows: Wednesday, July 19th Pomeroy: Garfield County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers, 789 Main St, 9:00 AM – 10:30 AM Dayton: Port of Columbia Office, Conference Room, 1 Port Way, 1:00 PM – 2:30 PM Tuesday, July 25th Republic: Northern Inn, 852 S Clark Ave, 1:30 PM – 3:00 PM *Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers’ Veterans’ Services staff member, John Davis, will be assisting veterans during the Mobile Office Hours in Republic.* Staff will be ready to answer questions and field concerns about federal issues from anyone who wishes to come by, no appointments needed. As always, folks are still welcome to contact any of the three main offices in Eastern Washington. That contact information is below: Colville office: 555 South Main Street, Colville, WA 99114 Phone: 509-684-3481 Spokane office: 10 North Post Street, Suite 625, Spokane, WA 99201 Phone: 509-353-2374 Walla Walla office: 26 E. Main Street, Suite 2, Walla Walla, WA 99362 Phone: 509-529-9358 # # #
06.29.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (June 29, 2017) – Today, Pacific Northwest Reps. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-03), Dan Newhouse (WA-04), Kurt Schrader (OR-05), and Greg Walden (OR-02) introduced bipartisan legislation to approve the Federal Columbia River Power System (FCRPS) Biological Opinion (BiOp) until 2022. This legislation will work to support the FCRPS and the benefit it brings to our region through the clean, renewable, and affordable energy it provides while allowing salmon to recover at record rates. “Hydropower provides 70 percent of our energy in Washington state—much of which is produced on the Federal Columbia River Power System,” said McMorris Rodgers. “The FCRPS ensures people in Eastern Washington have access to clean, renewable, reliable, and affordable energy every single day—all while achieving record fish returns. There is still work to be done, but dams and fish can coexist, and the FCRPS proves that.” “Vibrant salmon runs are vital to our way of life. Low cost, clean and extremely reliable energy from hydroelectricity powers everything we do. The 2014 BiOp plan represents the best possible path forward to preserve both, which is why it had such broad support from Republicans and Democrats, solution-minded members of the conservation community, farmers, businesses and other stakeholders across our region. Leaving the future of this vital system mired in the courts will result in its failure. Our bipartisan legislation is the only way to ensure a positive outcome for our region,” said Herrera Beutler. Herrera Beutler continued, “Consider what’s at stake if we fail to protect our vital hydropower infrastructure. Hundreds of millions of ratepayer dollars have successfully adapted it to accommodate record salmon runs, where an average of 97% of young salmon successfully make it past the dams. To replace the energy produced by these dams and consumed by our region, we’d need more than six coal-fired power plants or three nuclear facilities to get the reliability that clean, carbon-free hydropower provides to the Pacific Northwest. No one seriously believes wind and solar alone could supplant hydropower in our region. This legislation is the only real path forward to protect our way of life.” “Removing the Snake River dams would be harmful to our communities, the environment, and our economy. This legislation is needed to support the critical role that Snake River dams play by providing Washington communities with clean, renewable hydropower,” said Newhouse. “In addition, hydropower dams provide many benefits to our region, including flood control, navigation, irrigation, and recreation, which is why this legislation is needed to ensure the Federal Columbia River Power System Biological Opinion remains in effect until 2022. I am proud to work with my colleagues on this commonsense bill to protect our dams.” “It is time for science, not politics, to drive our energy and salmon restoration policy,” said Schrader. “The BiOp has been the product of three administrations’ work that’s been informed by our experts at BPA, the Corps, NMFS, USFW, tribes, energy groups, and environmental groups. It would be imprudent at best to cast all of that informed work aside. Over one third of our electric bills pay for fish passage on the Columbia River with 95% passage rates. It is time to get politics out and let the experts backed by science determine best practices.” “As we work to improve fish runs, we must not lose sight of the importance to the region of renewable hydropower, recreation, and transportation,” said Walden. “The uncertainty created by on-going litigation over operations impacts all of that. This legislation will provide more certainty that’s needed to help operation of the system to maintain these important benefits to all of the Pacific Northwest.” NOTE: In May, a bipartisan group of Members from Washington and Oregon wrote a letter expressing concerns over the management of the FCRPS following Judge Michael Simon’s March 27, 2017, court order on motions for injunctive relief. After receiving responses from the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) and other officials regarding the implications of Judge Simon’s decision, it’s clear that action must be taken to protect ratepayers in the Pacific Northwest and allow the experts to continue their work on fish recovery. In BPA’s June response, they noted $15.28 billion in total spending since 1978 on fish recovery and mitigation in the FCRPS. They also reported that average juvenile dam passage survival currently ranges between 96 and 99 percent for yearling Chinook salmon and steelhead smolts at each dam. In response to Judge Simon’s ordering of increased spill over the dams, BPA said consequences could cause “biological, physical and/or structural, and potential adverse consequences for the combined federal power and transmission system.” As the Bonneville Power Administration begins their rate case in 2025 and moves forward in negotiating with utilities, they need to have certainty in their pricing. The current state of litigation has resulted in requirements that are unsustainable and jeopardize the future of energy production in the Pacific Northwest. Hydropower is the largest form of renewable energy in the United States. The FCRPS BiOp helps ensure that the Pacific Northwest has access to clean, renewable, and affordable energy to power homes, businesses, and communities. The FCRPS BiOp was the product of unprecedented collaboration between President Barack Obama’s administration, states, and sovereign Northwest tribes. The BiOp has helped to produce record fish returns through the use of modern, innovative technology, and has widespread support in the region. You can read the full text of the legislation here. # # #
06.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (June 28, 2017) – On Friday of last week, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) introduced the Hydropower Policy Modernization Act of 2017. Today this bill went before the House Energy and Commerce Committee for consideration, passing by a voice vote. It will now continue its journey through the legislative process. During today’s hearing, Rep. McMorris Rodgers delivered opening remarks on the importance of this legislation to Eastern Washington and the Pacific Northwest. In case you missed it, you can see them here: You can find more information about this legislation by visiting www.mcmorris.house.gov/hydropower. Rep. McMorris Rodgers’ remarks as delivered: Strike the last word, Thank you Mr. Chairman, members of the committee, asking for strong support of the language that is before the committee. Hydropower serves as the nation’s largest source of clean, renewable, reliable, and affordable energy. In my home state it’s over 70 percent of our energy power comes from hydropower. And there is still room for tremendous potential to increase production of this renewable energy resource. We could double hydropower production in America without building a new dam. Only 3% of the dams actually produce electricity, it’s estimated it would create over 700,000 new jobs by simply updating the technology in our existing infrastructure and streamlining the relicensing process. The only problem? On average it only takes 18 months to authorize or relicense a new natural gas facility in America, and it regularly takes over 10 years or longer to license a new hydropower project or reauthorize an existing facility. It’s time to fix this arbitrary, out of date approval process and make hydropower production easier and less costly. And that’s exactly what the the Hydropower Policy Modernization Act of 2017 will do. Specifically, this language designates FERC as the lead agency for the purposes of coordinating all Federal authorizations and establishes coordinated procedures for the licensing of hydropower projects. By designating FERC as the lead when coordinating with agencies, states, and tribes, there will be added transparency and collaboration. This added certainty in the relicensing process will diminish the burden on the resource agencies and help avoid unnecessary delays. This language also incentivizes capital intensive projects, like updating turbines or improving fish ladders. Right now, these upgrades are only included in the lifespan of a dam’s license during the relicensing window. Just as a side note, with updated turbines and fish ladders we are seeing record salmon returns in the Pacific Northwest. Included in the legislation is an early action provision requiring FERC to include all protection, mitigation, and enhancement measures during the relicensing process. In addition, the legislation allows the timely and efficient completion of license proceedings by minimizing duplication of studies and establishing a program to compile a comprehensive collection of studies and data on a regional or basin-wide scale. At the same time, industry has the option to help pay for studies and staff resources to speed up the relicensing process. I serve as the co-chair of the Northwest Energy Caucus, and I recognize the tremendous potential hydropower brings to our region, Eastern Washington, but to the entire country. By utilizing currently untapped resources and unleashing American ingenuity, hydropower production will lower energy costs and help create jobs. I just would bring to the committee’s attention that this has been a very bipartisan effort through the years. This language has been before the committee for several months. In fact this is language that passed the Senate with 85 votes last Congress. We have made some amendments that I want to bring to your attention in keeping with the promise to listen to the concerns expressed by members of the committee and across the aisle to deliver a bipartisan solution. The amendment responds to the concerns expressed by FERC to loosen some of the process reforms for licensing amendments and exemptions, which are a class of permits that are generally handled by FERC in a timely fashion. The amendment revises our language to allow the Secretary of the Resource Agency to delegate certain authorities to identified persons within their respective departments. It also includes bipartisan language that clarifies our intent that hydro reforms will have no effect on the Clean Water Act, the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act, the Endangered Species Act, Rivers and Harbors Act, National Historic Preservation Act. And it also includes bipartisan language on watershed wide plans and qualified project updates. I’m hopeful that we can get the committee’s support of this language. And I yield back. # # #
06.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (June 27, 2017) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today commented on the announcement by the Trump Administration of a proposed rule to repeal the Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule imposed by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) under the Obama Administration. “WOTUS is one of the most burdensome EPA rules of the Obama Administration. You think about the impact it’s had on rural communities, on our cattlemen and farmers— it’s making it more and more difficult for hardworking Americans to be successful,” said McMorris Rodgers.” It’s something I’ve heard about frequently in Eastern Washington. Thank you to President Trump and his administration for taking action to ensure this rule no longer targets our rural communities.” # # #
06.23.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (June 23, 2017) – Today, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services Administrator (CMS) Seema Verma announced that CMS will not move forward on plans to apply competitive bid rates to specific Complex Rehab Technology (CRT) specialized power wheelchairs and accessories originally set to go into effect on July 1, 2017. On June 14, 2017, Rep. McMorris Rodgers led a letter with a bipartisan group of 154 Members of the U.S. House of Representatives to Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price and Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) Administrator Seema Verma expressing concerns with implementation of the Medicare Competitive Bidding Program and requesting CMS use its administrative authority to stop these CRT payment reductions. These reimbursement cuts had the potential to dramatically reduce patient access to CRT accessories. “I’m so pleased to see CMS reconsider making these drastic cuts to Complex Rehab Technology,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Those with ALS and other debilitating diseases rely on these tools in their day-to-day lives. I’m thankful to the Trump Administration for their willingness to work together to ensure people in Eastern Washington, and across the country, have access to important medical equipment and technology so they can thrive and live independent lives.” You can view the full letter here. # # #
06.21.2017	Dept. of Interior must continue playing a key role in preventing spread of destructive mussels that could cost region $500 million WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Members of Congress from Oregon, Washington, and Idaho sent a letter to Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke requesting assistance to combat the spread of an invasive species of mussels that threatens the Columbia River system, fisheries, and hydropower infrastructure. In a bipartisan effort, U.S. Representatives Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA), Peter DeFazio (D-OR), Mike Simpson (R-ID), Kurt Schrader (D-OR), Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Rick Larsen (D-WA), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Raúl Labrador (R-ID), Adam Smith (D-WA), Denny Heck (D-WA), Pramila Jayapal (D-WA), Earl Blumenauer (D-OR), and Dave Reichert (R-WA) signed the letter urging Secretary Zinke to maximize federal resources to effectively combat the invasive spread of quagga and zebra mussels that threaten the region. The text of the letter follows and a PDF version is available here. Dear Secretary Zinke: We write to draw your attention to the immediate threat of invasive mussels to the Pacific Northwest region and request your assistance, through the Department of the Interior, in combating their spread. In November 2016, invasive mussel larvae were detected at Canyon Ferry Reservoir and Tiber Reservoir in Montana. Prior to this detection, the Pacific Northwest remained one of the only regions in North America without invasive quagga and zebra mussels. Any further spread of invasive mussels would have devastating and extensive impacts on the economy, natural resources, and river operations throughout the region. In fact, if invasive mussel populations become established in the Pacific Northwest, it is estimated to cost our region $500 million every year just to manage the effects of an infestation. Therefore, we believe it is imperative that we work together to ensure that these species do not breach the Continental Divide and invade the Columbia River system. Failing to do so would likely result in widespread infestation throughout the Columbia River Basin. Once these mussels are introduced, there is no known way to eradicate them. The Department of Interior is critical for augmenting efforts of the States in preventing the spread of invasive mussels through such means as establishing and operating watercraft inspection stations and invasive mussel monitoring. The earlier an invasion is detected, the more cost-effective and successful management efforts will be. We appreciate any efforts the Department can undertake to coordinate with stakeholders for monitoring best practices, and we applaud the Department for establishing the Invasive Species Working Group and its several subcommittees focused on this issue. As you continue in these efforts, we request that the Department do everything possible to ensure containment at the source at high-risk federally infected waterbodies, which is the most effective way to prevent any further spread of invasive mussels. The main source of infected watercraft entering the Pacific Northwest region originates from the Lower Colorado River system, particularly from Lake Mead National Recreation Area. In past years, Members of Congress and states have requested that the Department institute mandatory inspection and decontamination for all vessels leaving infested federal waterbodies, unfortunately the Department has yet to implement this request. As you establish new priorities at the Department of Interior, we reiterate this request and ask for immediate attention to this serious economic and environmental issue. We offer our assistance and willingness to work with you and your staff on this matter. Thank you, we look forward to your response. # # #
06.19.2017	Rate increase requests as high as 38 percent follow decrease in number of insurers and plans for 2018 SPOKANE, WA (June 19, 2017) – Today, Reps Dan Newhouse (W-04) and Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after insurance rate increase requests were filed in Washington state for 2018: “Today, Washington state released its proposed plans and premiums for 2018, and Washingtonians are again facing higher health insurance costs and decreasing options in the individual marketplace – including zero plans in two counties. Proposed premium increases statewide reach as high as 38 percent. Despite state efforts to prop up this flawed, unstable law, it is clear that Obamacare is on an unsustainable path in our state. We refuse to allow this failed government-knows-best approach to healthcare to cause more damage, and are committed to working with our colleagues in Congress to ensure Washingtonians have access to the quality, affordable health insurance that they deserve.” On June 8th, eleven health insurers filed 71 plans for Washington state’s 2018 individual health insurance market, down from 13 insurers offering 154 plans in 2017. In two counties in Washington, Grays Harbor and Klickitat, no insurer filed individual plans for 2018. Chelan, Douglas, Ferry, Pend Oreille, and San Juan counties will all have only insurer offering coverage plans on the exchange. Insurance rate increase requests for 2018 according to information provided by the Washington State Office of the Insurance Commissioner: ASURIS NORTHWEST HEALTH is requesting a rate change of 31%. BRIDGESPAN HEALTH COMPANY is requesting a rate change of 23%. COORDINATED CARE CORPORATION is requesting a rate change of 29.3%. HEALTH ALLIANCE NORTHWEST HEALTH PLAN is requesting a rate change of 14.6%. KAISER FOUNDATION HEALTH PLAN OF THE NORTHWEST is requesting a rate change of 12.91%. KAISER FOUNDATION HEALTH PLAN OF WASHINGTON is requesting a rate change of 12.9%. LIFEWISE HEALTH PLAN OF WASHINGTON is requesting a rate change of *either 9.7% or 21.6%. MOLINA HEALTHCARE OF WASHINGTON INC is requesting a rate change of 38.49%. PREMERA BLUE CROSS is requesting a rate change of 27.7%. REGENCE BLUESHIELD is requesting a rate change of 30%. REGENCE BLUECROSS BLUESHIELD OF OREGON is requesting a rate change of 30.9%. *Information provided by Office of the Insurance Commissioner. # # #
06.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (June 13, 2017)–Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed the Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act, bipartisan legislation that would reform the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) by allowing the Secretary to dismiss poorly-performing employees and those who engage in misconduct while ensuring appropriate due process protections for whistleblowers. The bill now heads to the President’s desk. “The VA’s sole mission is to serve our veterans. Yet time and time again, the Department is disconnected from that mission, treating our veterans like burdens instead of heroes. Today the House took an important step to hold those whose jobs are to serve our veterans accountable for their misconduct and for failing to maintain the standards that our servicemen and women deserve. This unified Republican government is committed to those who have sacrificed so much for our nation. I’m grateful to Chairman Roe and the Veterans Affairs’ Committee for their tireless work ensuring that our veterans have a voice and receive the care they need.” Watch the post-bill passage press conference on Facebook here. Earlier today, McMorris Rodgers led a House Republican Leadership press conference about the need for VA reform. Click here to view her remarks. Key quotes: “The way a grateful nation shows its gratitude to those who served is making sure that they get the care when they need it. …The [VA’s] sole mission is to focus on our veterans and get them the care that they need. And yet time and time again this is an agency where unfortunately we see they’re disconnected from their mission.” “Every day, all of us have veterans that are contacting our offices with concerns, needing help. When a veteran contacts the VA, we want them to be rolling out the red carpet. Unfortunately, they encounter red tape. Instead of being treated like the heroes that they are, they feel like they’re more of a burden.” “I’ve long said that the VA has a culture problem. Over the years we have put billions and billions of dollars into the VA, but we haven’t seen the reform.” “[The Department of Veterans Affairs Accountability and Whistleblower Protection Act of 2017] is common sense. If you’re involved in misconduct, you should be demoted, suspended, or fired. You certainly shouldn’t be getting a promotion or a pay increase. And if you’re a whistleblower, you should be protected. At the end of the day, this is about the heroes getting the care that they need.” NOTE: Since hearing of the extensive wait times and tragic deaths at the VA, McMorris Rodgers has been a vocal champion for America’s veterans. She challenged then-Secretary McDonald when he compared VA wait times to waiting in line at Disney Land, saying “when you go to Disney you aren’t wondering if you’re going to live long enough to make it to Space Mountain.” She and Rep. Seth Moulton (D-MA) introduced the Faster Care for Veterans Act, which was signed into law in December, to introduce off-the-shelf self-scheduling technology to the VA. And in a Washington Post op-ed, she outlines her vision for a 21st Century VA. # # #
06.05.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (June 5, 2017) — Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) celebrated the selection of Fairchild Air Force Base in Spokane, Washington as the preferred alternative for the reassignment of 12 KC-135 Stratotanker aerial refueling tankers from McConnell Air Force Base. These new tankers will make Fairchild the largest Air Force KC-135 base in the country. “This is excellent news for the Spokane area. Fairchild is a center of excellence and the largest employer in Eastern Washington. It plays a strategic role in supporting operations in the Asia-Pacific region,” said McMorris Rodgers. “This new squadron sets up Fairchild Air Force Base as the preeminent tanker base in the country and cements its role in the Air Force’s long-term mission of global mobility and reach. These tankers bring additional capacity and capability to Fairchild, a vital location for the Air Force.” Fairchild says this move will bring 400 additional personnel to the base, along with their families and dependents. It will make Fairchild the largest tanker base in the country with these tankers permanently assigned. It is estimated that this move will bring more than $19.5 million per year in economic impact to Spokane. In March, Rep. McMorris Rodgers and Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA) sent a letter to Lisa Disbrow, then Acting Secretary of the U.S. Air Force, expressing their support for the selection of Fairchild Air Force Base for the reassignment of these tankers. In the letter they said, “Fairchild continues to be a vital location for the Air Force and a crucial base for national defense, the Air Force, and the State of Washington. We encourage you to carefully consider these attributes and select Fairchild Air Force Base as the new location for this squadron of KC-135 tankers.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers is committed to rebuilding our military and restoring military readiness. These new tankers will continue to reinforce the role Fairchild plays in U.S. Air Force strategic operations and help ensure that Fairchild can continue to bring important economic opportunities to the Inland Northwest. # # #
05.25.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (May 25, 2017)–Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) recently joined Hadley Heath Manning, Independent Women’s Forum’s Director of Health Policy, on the Working for Women podcast. In their chat, McMorris Rodgers dispels myths about the American Health Care Act and shares how the bill will protect people with pre-existing conditions, like her son Cole. Listen to the full interview here. Here’s what you should know: On Misinformation: “I’m very disappointed by the amount of false information that’s being pushed by the Left, especially as it relates to those with pre-existing conditions. They are scaring a lot of people and I hear that fear pretty regularly….the American Health Care Act guarantees coverage to everyone with a pre-existing condition. This has been a priority of mine, and under our plan insurance companies are..:banned from rescinding coverage based on a pre-existing condition, and they’re prevented from raising premiums on individuals with pre-existing conditions who maintain continuous coverage. …Republicans remain united on this goal. In all the years we’ve talked about repealing Obamacare, we have consistently said we would not repeal the provisions related to protecting those with pre-existing conditions.” On the State Waivers “I would emphasize that even in this waiver option, no state is able to get a waiver for the guaranteed issue of coverage, the guaranteed renewability of that coverage…I joined…Members of Congress in introducing an amendment that dedicates $8 billion to reduce premiums and other out-of-pocket expenses for patients in the individual market with pre-existing conditions. So if a state seeks a waiver and goes into this territory of having more flexibility, we wanted to make sure that those individuals that because of life changes — changing from state-to-state or job-to-job — would still get protections. That $8 billion ensures that an individual in those circumstances would not have their premiums raised beyond a certain level and the state would also have to have an invisible high risk pool.” Why we’re doing this “My goal in all of this is to ensure that we have a better health care future for everyone in this country. I believe when you look at Obamacare, you continue to see where it is failing. We get more news — now Anthem is pulling out — and just example after example where the promises of Obamacare are not being fulfilled. We have people with pre-existing conditions, increasing co-pays, increasing deductibles, and we need health care reform — we need a better health care future. The beginning stage takes place with the American Health Care Act.”
05.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (May 24, 2017)–Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement regarding the Congressional Budget Office (CBO)’s report on the American Health Care Act: “We’re on a rescue mission, and today’s CBO report reinforces what we’ve said before — our American Health Care Act will lower premiums and reduce the deficit. The CBO report doesn’t tell the whole story when it comes to the benefits of this bill, but we’re one step closer to keeping our promise to repeal and replace Obamacare, which continues to fail. House Republicans want a better health care future for all Americans, and a system that puts the people — not the government — at the center. We will continue working on reforms that lower prices and give people meaningful choices to find health care coverage that meets their needs.” # # #
05.23.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (May 23, 2017)–Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the Trump administration released its proposed budget for Fiscal Year 2018: “The President has made very clear that national security and defense are his top priorities, and this budget reflects that. Congress will now do its part to review this budget blueprint. While we’re ultimately the ones who control the power of the purse, I look forward to working with my colleagues and the administration on making sure the American people’s priorities are met.” As the Congresswoman told the Spokesman-Review earlier today: “The federal budget program is broken and needs an overhaul, McMorris Rodgers said. Congress should review all federal spending and consider ‘zero-based budgeting’ a process in which all agencies start with no money and all expenses are justified each year.” NOTE: Earlier this month, the Congresswoman released this statement after the People’s House voted on legislation to fund the government for the remainder of the year. Here is a list of funding priorities specific to Eastern Washington in the FY 2017 government funding bill. # # #
05.23.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (May 23, 2017) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today introduced the Fostering Opportunities for Resources and Education Spending through Timber Sales (FORESTS) Act of 2017 to reaffirm the federal government’s century-old commitment to responsibly managing forest lands for the benefit of rural counties. This legislation will incentivize local collaboration and decision-making within national forests, promote active forest management, and encourage public-private partnerships, like the A to Z project on the Colville National Forest. “When you think of the Pacific Northwest, chances are you think of our forests. But without proper management, this valuable resource is at risk of devastation,” said McMorris Rodgers. “The FORESTS Act provides certainty for counties and school districts by reauthorizing the Secure Rural Schools (SRS) program and encourages a common-sense, collaborative approach to forest management that will empower communities, improve forest health, reduce wildfires, and put people back to work.” This legislation works in four ways. First, it promotes active forest management by requiring the Secretary of Agriculture to establish one or more Forest Active Management Areas (FAMAs) in each unit of the National Forest System, and requiring the U.S. Forest Service to produce at least half of the sustainable timber yield in each FAMA each year. Second, it encourages public-private partnerships between industry, environment, state, local, and tribal groups to responsibly manage federal forests. Third, it reauthorizes the Secure Rural Schools (SRS) program to continue the commitment of the federal government to rural communities by redirecting revenues from timber sales to be used for public schools, roads, and other municipal needs. Lastly, the legislation reforms the litigation process to allow projects negotiated by collaboratives to utilize an arbitration process to incentivize differing interests to work together on solutions to manage our forests. Rep. McMorris Rodgers also released this video today on the importance of the FORESTS Act and the need for active forest management on federal forests. You can watch it here: Note: Rep. McMorris Rodgers also introduced this legislation during the 114th Congress, of which many provisions were included in the Resilient Federal Forests Act, which passed the House in July of 2015. Earlier this year, the Congresswoman introduced separate legislation to extend the SRS program through Fiscal Year 2018. Nearly 100 years ago, Congress passed legislation to specify that 25 percent of revenues from timber harvests on federal lands would be shared with affected counties. With the downturn in timber production on federal lands, the SRS program was established in 2000 to renew this commitment to timberlands, but has remained expired since September 30, 2015. The program impacts seven counties within the Fifth Congressional District and 27 across Washington state. # # #
05.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (May 18, 2017) – Today, Rep. McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) announced the approval of a $15 million grant from the Department of Transportation (DOT) for 2017 construction and reimbursement for the Instrument Landing System (ILS) at the Pullman-Moscow Regional Airport. Rep. McMorris Rodgers released the following statement after the announcement: “The Pullman-Moscow Regional Airport Runway Realignment Project will play an important role in modernizing Eastern Washington’s infrastructure. It will help connect those in our community with the rest of the world and encourage economic growth in the region. This grant is a huge win for everyone on the Palouse and I look forward to seeing this project finished so the airport can continue to benefit our community for decades to come.” Secretary of Transportation Elaine Chao said of the grant, “These grants will help to ensure our aviation infrastructure has the continued ability to move the traveling public and the shipment of goods safely and efficiently. Air transportation is a vital mode of transportation connecting the traveling public to family, business, and global opportunities.” In March, the airport received an announcement from the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) that they would be approved for a traditional ILS, and part of the $15 million grant announced today will assist funding for the ILS. You can find more information on the grant here. # # #
05.15.2017	Legislation Makes Steve Gleason Act of 2015 Permanent WASHINGTON, D.C. (May 16, 2017) — Representatives Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and John Larson (D-CT), and Senators Bill Cassidy (R-LA) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) today introduced the Steve Gleason Enduring Voices Act (H.R. ___), which builds upon the successes of the Steve Gleason Act of 2015. The Steve Gleason Enduring Voices Act permanently fixes the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) policy that limited access to speech generation devices for people with degenerative diseases. “The silence and isolation that comes from losing the ability to communicate does not discriminate between types of injuries, diseases, accidents, or conditions,” said Steve Gleason. “Most people who have severe disabilities are expected to fade away quietly and die. For me, that was not ok. With the right equipment and the right technology, these same people can live and be productive for decades. I know I speak for all who use this technology in saying – we cannot revert back to the changes that preceded the Steve Gleason Act of 2015. I am grateful for Representatives McMorris Rodgers and Larson, as well as Senators Cassidy and Klobuchar, for their leadership on this issue. While this Act was passed unanimously in 2015, we ask Congress to join these sponsors to permanently ensure that people with the most severe disabilities have access to communication, and the tools to continue a productive and purposeful life.” “Steve Gleason is a hero and inspiration to all of us, and especially to the thousands of Americans living with degenerative diseases who, like him, rely on speech generating devices to communicate with their family, friends, and doctors,” said Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers (R-WA). “When bureaucratic rules threatened to silence many of them, the Gleason Act gave these individuals the peace of mind to know that their voices will continue to be heard. The Steve Gleason Enduring Voices Act ensures there are ‘no white flags’ and that access to speech generation devices continues permanently for those who need it most. This is about giving a permanent voice to the voiceless.” “Steve Gleason is an inspiration to all people who want to live life to the fullest, and the Steve Gleason Act represents a huge victory for everybody who refuses to be defined by their disabilities. Steve Gleason’s “No White Flags” motto describes his persistence and leadership to stand up for everybody who wants to achieve their full potential despite life’s setbacks. Each year, over 5,000 people are diagnosed with A.L.S., and they all have something to say. Today, thanks to the 2015 Steve Gleason Act, thousands of people with disabilities who were once forced to suffer in silence now have a voice so they can live life to the fullest,” said Rep. Scalise. “With parts of this law set to expire, it’s critical that Congress acts now to ensure that patients can continue to benefit from this life-changing legislation, and so that people with disabilities have greater opportunities when seeking treatments, cures and independence. I look forward to working with my House colleagues to pass this bipartisan legislation so it can quickly be signed into law by President Trump.” “I’d like to thank the Gleason family and the dedicated advocates with Team Gleason, the ALS Association, and Connecticut’s own Center for Medicare Advocacy for fighting alongside individuals and families living with degenerative diseases,” said Congressman Larson (D-CT). “As a member of Ways & Means, I will work to advance this must-pass bill through the Committee to ensure that people’s’ access to speech-generating devices are protected. I am proud to stand with Rep. McMorris Rodgers and our Senate colleagues on this important, bipartisan effort to make the Steve Gleason Act of 2015 permanent.” “I am proud to continue the efforts of my former colleague, Senator David Vitter, who worked for years to allow those who could not speak to have a voice,” said Dr. Cassidy (R-LA). “These communication devices open up the world to the thousands living with speech and communication disabilities.” “Speech-generating devices aren’t a luxury for people affected by diseases like ALS and Parkinson’s—they’re a lifeline. These tools are crucial to helping people lead independent lives and stay connected to their communities,” said Senator Klobuchar (D-MN). “Our bipartisan legislation will ensure access to these life-changing devices for those who need them.” “This initiative builds on the great efforts we’ve already achieved in giving a voice back to those with degenerative disabilities,” said Congressman Paulsen (R-MN). “Thanks to the continued awareness raised by Steve Gleason and the countless advocates for those with ALS and other degenerative conditions, millions in need will now have permanent access to speech-generation devices, giving them the ability to be heard as well as communicate with loved ones.” “The ALS Association strongly supports the Steve Gleason Enduring Voices Act,” said Barbara Newhouse, President and CEO of the ALS Association. “The ability to communicate with family and friends – and express needs to medical professionals – should not be taken away from a person living with ALS. This bill will ensure that Medicare eligible patients are able to keep their speech generating devices – at home, in the community and in healthcare settings.” “As advocates for people with Medicare, we are delighted that the Steve Gleason Enduring Voices Act will make the 2015 Act permanent. This law will provide peace of mind for extremely vulnerable Medicare beneficiaries and ensure they will never again lose their only means of communication if they need to leave home to live in a nursing facility, hospice or hospital,” said Judith Stein, Executive Director at the Center for Medicare Advocacy. NOTE: After learning about CMS regulatory changes that limited access to Speech Generation Devices, affecting anyone who uses the device and has Medicare, Steve Gleason wrote an open letter to Congress and CMS in July, 2014. Steve’s mother, Gail Gleason, and members of the ALS Association then approached Representative McMorris Rodgers about these changes that could dramatically and negatively affect the lives of those who depend on these devices. In September of 2014, more than 200 Members of the House and Senate—Democrats and Republicans—sent a letter to CMS to investigate this arbitrary decision. After CMS addressed only one of their concerns, Steve traveled to Washington, D.C. to meet with the heads of CMS, Medicare and legislative leaders on what could be done when legislation was noted as the only the solution. Click here for a full timeline of the Gleason Act from start to finish. ABOUT STEVE GLEASON Steve Gleason, who was born and raised in Spokane, played for the Washington State University football team as a linebacker from 1996-1999. He played for the New Orleans Saints from 2000-2008 until retiring in 2008. In 2011, he was diagnosed with amyotrophic laterals sclerosis (ALS), which affects nerve cells in the brain and the spinal cord. That same year, Steve and his wife, Michel, founded Team Gleason to raise awareness of ALS and advocate for a cure. Notable points about Steve Gleason: He was born and raised in Spokane, where he attended Gonzaga Prep High School He played in the 1997 Rose Bowl, WSU vs. Michigan He famously blocked the punt of the Atlanta Falcons during the 2006 Superbowl between the Falcons and the Saints that symbolized a comeback for New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina. That punt has been immortalized in a statue outside of the Superdome erected in 2012. He is the father of Rivers Gleason, born in 2011. According to the Team Gleason website: The most significant accomplishment for Steve and Michel since Steve’s diagnosis was their decision to have a child. In October 2011, Rivers Gleason was born and is the center of their lives. When Steve was diagnosed, he famously said there will be “No White Flags”. This has become the Team Gleason mantra, but it is most important when applied to Steve as a father. No goal is more important to Steve and Michel than finding a solution for ALS, so they can share many, many years together and as parents to Rivers. In 2014, he was inducted into the WSU Athletic Hall of Fame In 2016, a documentary about Steve Gleason’s life, “Gleason,” was released, and was nominated for five Critic’s Choice awards. On January 5, 2017, six years after he was diagnosed with ALS, he shared on his Twitter his thoughts, writing in part, “…I am happy.” More information about Steve and Team Gleason can be found here: http://www.teamgleason.org/about/ Learn more about the Steve Gleason Enduring Voices Act at mcmorris.house.gov/gleason. # # #
05.11.2017	Washington, D.C. (May 11, 2017) — Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today announced staff-led mobile office hours for the months of May and June. The Congresswoman has offices in Colville, Spokane, and Walla Walla that are ready to welcome people from all over Eastern Washington, and mobile office hours allow folks outside of those areas the chance to connect directly with the Congresswoman’s staff without needing to travel. Dates, times, and locations for May and June mobile office hours are as follows: Wednesday, May 17th Pomeroy: Garfield County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers, 789 Main St, 9:00 AM – 10:30 AM Dayton: Port of Columbia Office, Conference Room, 1 Port Way, 1:00 PM – 2:30 PM Tuesday, May 23rd Republic: Northern Inn, 852 S Clark Ave, 1:30 PM – 3:00 PM Tuesday, June 13th Colfax: Whitman County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers, 400 N Main St, 10:00 AM – 11:30 AM Clarkston: SEWEDA Office, Conference Room, 845 Port Way, 1:00 PM – 2:30 PM Wednesday, June 28th Davenport: Lincoln County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers, 450 Logan St, 10:00 AM – 11:30 AM Newport: Pend Oreille County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers, 625 W 4th St, 2:00 PM – 3:30 PM Staff will be ready to answer questions and field concerns about federal issues from anyone who wishes to come by, no appointments needed. As always, folks are still welcome to contact any of the three main offices in Eastern Washington. That contact information is below: Colville office: 555 South Main Street, Colville, WA 99114 Phone: 509-684-3481 Spokane office: 10 North Post Street, Suite 625, Spokane, WA 99201 Phone: 509-353-2374 Walla Walla office: 26 E. Main Street, Suite 2, Walla Walla, WA 99362 Phone: 509-529-9358 # # #
05.04.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (May 4, 2017) — Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed the American Health Care Act (AHCA). Earlier this morning, she posted this blog post on her support for protecting people with pre-existing conditions. More information about the AHCA can be found at passthebill.gop. “Seven years ago, I stood on the floor of the House and watched Obamacare pass. I will never forget the feeling — watching as, with each vote cast, the American people’s freedoms were slipping away. Republicans were powerless to stop the impending wave of expensive, burdensome policy. The already failing status quo in health care was about to get so much worse. Unfortunately, our biggest fears came true. Obamacare, though well-intentioned, failed its goals and failed in its promises. Since that moment, we’ve been on a rescue mission. “Today is historic. With the American Health Care Act, the House voted to keep its promise to the American people: we’re going to repeal Obamacare and replace it with a health care system that puts them — not the federal government — in control of their health care decisions. After marathon markups, listening to feedback from doctors and patients and advocates, and tough conversations with our colleagues, we came together to ensure this bill that will improve lives. I’m very proud of our work, and of the leadership of my colleagues who have been working on these reforms for years. “My top priority throughout this process has been protecting people with pre-existing conditions and giving them peace of mind to know that they have access to care. The American Health Care Act guarantees that access to health insurance coverage can’t be denied for people with pre-existing conditions, and empowers states to innovate with new models for better patient outcomes at a lower cost with the Patient and State Stability Fund. “For the millions of Americans who have been struggling to find affordable, reliable health care coverage, or had one — or no — option in health care providers, this is a victory. Our work on reforms to the health care marketplace will continue. This was only one part of our three-part process to repeal and replace Obamacare. In parts two and three, Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price, M.D. will make reforms through his authority, and we will work on common sense reforms — like being able to purchase insurance across state lines — to help lower costs and increase access. We are committed to achieving a better health care future for every American.” Note: McMorris Rodgers is a member of the Energy and Commerce Committee and participated in the marathon markup when the American Health Care Act was first introduced. She has always been a vocal advocate for people with pre-existing conditions, and ensuring our vulnerable communities have access to health care. Earlier today, she voted for legislation introduced by Rep. Martha McSally (R-AZ) that ensures that Members of Congress and their staff are treated the same as everyone else under the new health care bill. For more on the American Health Care Act and the House’s efforts to repeal and replace Obamacare, visit passthebill.gop. # # #
05.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (May 3, 2017) – Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today released the following statement after the House voted on legislation that will fund the federal government for the remainder of FY 2017. “I am pleased this bill contains a number of wins for Eastern Washington and gives people the certainty they need to create jobs and grow the economy. The bill gives our military the highest pay raise in six years, puts billions of dollars toward wildfire firefighting and prevention programs, funds medical research at the National Institutes of Health, and puts more money toward rural health care. Having this process completed allows us to go to work on 2018’s budget, which is our opportunity to change the course, balance budgets, reverse our deficit spending trend, go after unauthorized spending, and rethink the federal government from top to bottom: every program, every agency so that we do have an efficient, effective, accountable government.” About H.R. 244, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2017 The government funding bill, H.R. 244, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2017 (known as an omnibus) provides $1.163 trillion to fund the government through September 30, 2017. This bill funds our armed services, strengths homeland security, supports vital scientific research programs, and reduces unnecessary regulatory burdens across the government. H.R. 244 also provides critical funding and statutory reforms for a number of Eastern Washington’s most important priorities, including: $598.5 billion total in defense spending for FY17, an increase of $25 billion from FY16, to invest in the security and prosperity of the United States, including the highest military pay raise in six years. $1.5 billion in funding to enhance border and other security, the largest such increase to border security technologies and infrastructure improvement in more than a decade. $4.2 billion for wildland firefighting prevention programs, including $407 million in emergency funding to prevent fire borrowing in FY17. $465 million for the Federal Payments in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program, fully funding it and providing much-needed revenue for rural counties. $2.879 billion for the Agricultural Research Service (ARS) which includes funding for research to combat antimicrobial resistance. $34 billion in funding for the National Institutes of Health (NIH), which is $2 billion above FY16. This vital funding will help to empower our scientists and researchers so we can discover, develop, and deliver medical breakthroughs to cure diseases. $156 million, which is $6 million more than FY16, for rural health care, including an emphasis on telemedicine and providing additional grant opportunities for Critical Access Hospitals. Reaffirms the Congresswoman’s commitment to protecting the sanctity of life and Second Amendment rights. The Congresswoman believes the funding battles experienced in recent years have made it clear that Congress must restore regular order to the appropriations process. She is hopeful that, with a unified government, Congress can begin to reverse this trend. # # #
05.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (May 3, 2017) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) introduced legislation to extend the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act of 2000 alongside Reps. Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR), Sean Duffy (R-WI), Rick Nolan (D-MN), Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA), Derek Kilmer (D-WA) and Senators Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Ron Wyden (D-OR), Lisa Murkowski (R-AK) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA). This bipartisan, bicameral piece of legislation will extend the Secure Rural Schools (SRS) program through 2017. The SRS program is vital to our communities in Eastern Washington, and following the introduction of the legislation, Rep. McMorris Rodgers released the following statement: “The Secure Rural Schools program is vital for our rural communities, like those in Northeastern Washington. While we work toward active forestry reforms to get our federal forests working again, we must still provide certainty for our counties. This bill will help provide that certainty by ensuring the extension of the SRS program which aids affected counties with essential services, funding for public education, and infrastructure maintenance. I’m proud to lead this legislation because people in Eastern Washington rely on the Secure Rural Schools program for their livelihoods.” Yesterday, May 2, Pend Oreille County Commissioner Mike Manus gave testimony in front of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee in support of the SRS program and it’s importance to Eastern Washington. Specifically he said, “Chair Murkowski, Ranking Member Cantwell and the Senate Committee, thank you for the opportunity to share Pend Oreille County’s story. I look forward to working with you to pass legislation that will enhance our National Forests and secure permanent PILT funding, better management of our forests to prevent catastrophic wildfires and a program for SRS to bridge the gap in the interim. All my county residents need your support to protect their environment, enhance the economy, educate our youth, build our roads and assist our emergency responders.” You can read his full testimony here. Nearly 100 years ago, Congress passed legislation to specify that 25 percent of revenues from timber harvests on federal lands would be shared with affected counties. These funds went to public schools, roads, and other municipal needs. Unfortunately, over the past few decades, timber production has drastically fallen on federal lands. This has devastated the tax base and virtually eliminated revenue sharing for essential services. Reforms are needed to better take care of our forests and get people back to work. In the meantime, certainty needs to be provided to our counties by extending SRS. Currently, the uncertainty caused by the expiration of this program makes it nearly impossible for these counties to plan annual budgets or invest in public education or infrastructure. NOTE: The extension of Secure Rural Schools will provide funding for seven counties across the Fifth Congressional District, and 27 counties across Washington state. The Secure Rural Schools program was first enacted in 2000 to renew this commitment to timberlands, but has remained expired since September 30, 2015. In February of this year, Rep. McMorris Rodgers led a letter to Office of Management and Budget Director Mick Mulvaney requesting the inclusion of funding for the SRS program in the President’s budget for Fiscal Year 2018. Rep. McMorris Rodgers has been a champion of getting the nation’s forests back to work and advancing reforms to ensure federal forests are healthy and actively managed. In February, the Congresswoman hosted a roundtable discussion for the launch of the Congressional Working Forests Caucus to discuss how the nation’s forests can create jobs and grow the economy, and how tax policy impacts timber production on federal forests. She believes that with long term investment, unique opportunities can be brought back to these rural communities that the Secure Rural Schools program aims to help. You can view the full text of this legislation here. # # #
05.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (May 2, 2017) — Today, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) sent letters to Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) Administrator Elliot Mainzer, Secretary of the Army Robert Speer, Secretary of Commerce Wilbur Ross, and Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke expressing deep concern over management of the Federal Columbia River Power System (FCRPS) following Judge Michael Simon’s March 27, 2017 court order on motions for injunctive relief in the FCRPS Biological Opinion (BiOp). This court ruling orders steps to be taken to improve salmon returns. This decision impacts the operations at the lower four Snake River dams by requiring the dams to spill more water, decreasing the electrical output of the dams and estimating an increase in cost of 2-3 percent. Specifically, the letters request clarification from the BPA on eight questions no later than June 1, 2017. The letters state, “We believe that the 2008 BiOp achieved consensus on a plan that has demonstrated for several years that it is working to improve salmon recovery while still allowing operation of the federal dams. We are concerned that plaintiffs’ continued advocacy for additional spill or preventing needed maintenance of the dams as requested in the injunctions is not only unscientifically based, it is likely to be counterproductive.” Following the letters, Rep. McMorris Rodgers said, “Hydropower is an abundant, clean, and renewable energy resource that allows us here in Eastern Washington and the Pacific Northwest to have access to affordable, clean energy. It’s important that we get more information from BPA on the efforts they’ve taken to mitigate impact to fish and wildlife and to control energy costs for consumers in the Northwest.” Note: The decision by Judge Simon comes as another attempt to weaken the efficiency of our dams and reduce the clean, renewable energy they provide for our region. The FCRPS Biological Opinion (BiOp) was the product of significant collaboration between federal agencies, states, and sovereign Northwest tribes. The BiOp has helped to produce record fish returns through use of modern, innovative technology, and has widespread support in the region and from involved federal agencies. The Snake River dams are crucial to our region throughout the year, and produce enough clean, renewable energy every year to power 1.87 million homes. Hydropower in general produces 70 percent of Washington’s energy. The Snake River dams also allow for the efficient, cost-effective, low-carbon transport of goods. Nearly 10 percent of all U.S. wheat exports are shipped through the four lower Snake River dams. It would have taken more than 43,000 rail cars, or more than 160,000 semi-trucks, to move the goods that went by barge in 2014. The shipping of goods throughout our system of locks and dams translates into jobs, and an estimated 40,000 port-related jobs exist in the Northwest thanks to our dams. In November, Rep. McMorris Rodgers penned an op-ed published in the Walla Walla Union-Bulletin titled “Our Dams Support Us; It’s Time to Support Them.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers also serves as the Co-Chair of the Congressional Northwest Energy Caucus. You can read the full text of the letters here: May 2, 2017 Dear Secretary Zinke, We are writing to express our deep concern regarding the management of the Federal Columbia River Power System (FCRPS) following Judge Michael Simon’s March 27, 2017 court order on motions for injunctive relief in the FCRPS biological opinion. As you know, Judge Simon is ordering a significant increase in mandatory spill in the spring of 2018. Not only is additional spill a new policy affecting many congressionally-authorized projects in the Pacific Northwest, there will likely be unintended consequences that will hurt fish recovery while also greatly increasing power costs. The three FCRPS Action Agencies are the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Bonneville Power Administration (BPA), and the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation, which have the knowledge and expertise to manage FCRPS. According to the Adaptive Management Implementation Plan, “the Obama Administration undertook an extensive effort to review the 2008 FCRPS Biological Opinion (BiOp)” and found “the 2008 BiOp is biologically and legally sound, is based on the best available scientific information, and satisfies the ESA jeopardy standard.” This BiOp has been supported by states, tribal entities, utilities, ports, irrigation districts, and other Pacific Northwest water users. As such, the 9th Circuit Court continues to disagree with the best available science and continues to mandate new policies along the river system. Our constituents deserve to understand the proposed measures, as well as the expected impacts they will have on the region. To provide more clarity regarding the current and ongoing efforts BPA has taken to mitigate damage to fish and wildlife and the cost to the ratepayers in the Pacific Northwest, we would like the following information from the BPA by June 1, 2017: How much does BPA annually spend on fish and wildlife mitigation? If these payments were reflective in a ratepayer’s monthly bill, can you estimate this percentage in the statement? Between the three Action Agencies referenced above, how much has the federal government spent on fish recovery and mitigation in the FCRPS? What are fish survival percentages through each of the four lower Snake River Dams (Ice Harbor Dam, Lower Monumental Dam, Little Goose Dam, and Lower Granite Dam) and how do those compare to estimated survival of the fish before these dams were constructed? What is the percentage of juvenile and adult fish lost to pinniped, predator fish, and bird predation? What are the adverse consequences to increased spill? By increasing spill, what would be the quantifiable benefit for fish recovery given the cost of increasing spill and all of the other current actions to increase fry passage? How much are BPA, the Army Corps, and the Bureau of Reclamation budgeting for the National Environmental Policy Act review for the FCRPS in relation to the Court’s 2016 order? The Court ordered the plaintiffs and federal defendants “to consider an appropriate protocol and methodology for spill at each dam, incorporating the most beneficial spill patterns,” and the Court “expects the parties, amici, and other regional experts to work together to reach consensus.” We believe that the 2008 BiOp achieved consensus on a plan that has demonstrated for several years that it is working to improve salmon recovery while still allowing operation of the federal dams. We are concerned that plaintiffs’ continued advocacy for additional spill or preventing needed maintenance of the dams (as requested in the injunctions) is not only unscientifically based, but is also likely to be counterproductive. Prior to any future status conferences or filings with the Court, we respectfully request that you inform us in advance of your discussions and any decisions regarding the appropriate protocol and methodology for spill at each dam. Thank you for your attention to this request and please do not hesitate to contact our congressional offices with any questions. Sincerely, ___________________ Cathy McMorris Rodgers Member of Congress
05.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (May 1, 2017) — Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the below statement after the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) announced a delay of its menu labeling regulation until May 7, 2018, including a sixty day comment period for further stakeholder collaboration. The regulation was estimated to cost nearly $1 billion just for grocers. Coupled with the predicted 14.5 million hours of paperwork, the regulation was expected to be one of the most expensive and onerous regulations of the Obama administration. “This is good news for consumer choice,” said Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers. “This onerous rule would have hoisted burdensome, unrealistic regulations on consumers and businesses alike. Our federal agencies need to bring common sense back to rulemaking, and I am glad the FDA made the decision to delay this regulation.” This morning, the Congresswoman said on Fox News about her menu labeling legislation: “What I am asking for is common sense.” Watch her interview here: On Sunday, the Congresswoman told Maria Bartiromo that “Obamacare had nearly a trillion dollars in increased taxes. We also saw many, many regulations–hundreds of regulations that came out of Obamacare. One of the most burdensome was the menu labeling regulation that went way beyond what was ever intended.” The announcement today is a culmination of the Congresswoman’s efforts to push back against the FDA’s rule for five years. In February, Representatives Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) and Tony Cárdenas (CA-29) introduced the Common Sense Nutrition Disclosure Act of 2017 (H.R. 772) in the House, and Senators Roy Blunt (R-MO) and Angus King (I-ME) introduced a companion bill (S. 261) in the Senate. The Congresswoman plans to continue to push for the passage of the Common Sense Nutrition Disclosure Act to ensure businesses and consumers are protected from future onerous menu labeling regulations. More information about the FDA regulation and the Congresswoman’s legislation to make the regulation achievable can be found here: https://mcmorris.house.gov/common-sense-menu-labeling/ # # #
04.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (April 27, 2017)–This morning, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) joined Maria Bartiromo on Fox Business to give an update on health care and tax reform. She also discussed her new legislation, the Unauthorized Spending Accountability Act, known as the USA Act, that holds federal spending accountable. As the Congresswoman told Maria about the USA Act, “Anyone who cares about accountability should care about unauthorized spending.” In Fiscal Year 2016, Congress appropriated $310.4 billion to 256 programs and activities that are no longer authorized. The Congresswoman’s legislation, which has 27 co-sponsors, aims to hold federal spending accountable by putting all unauthorized government programs on a path to sunset in three years if they’re not reauthorized. Her legislation also helps create stability in our appropriations process. Learn more about the Congresswoman’s USA Act here. See the 2016 Congressional Budget Office (CBO) report of unauthorized programs here. # # #
04.26.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (APRIL 26, 2017) — Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, today re-introduced her legislation, the Unauthorized Spending Accountability (USA) Act. The USA Act aims to restore the American people’s “power of the purse” by eliminating unauthorized spending — spending on government programs that hasn’t been authorized by the people’s representatives in Congress. “Too much of the federal government is on autopilot, leaving the American people less able to effectively review, rethink, and possibly eliminate government programs. The concept behind the USA Act is simple: every penny of taxpayer money should be subject to the American people’s scrutiny and accountability.” Read more about the USA Act here: https://mcmorris.house.gov/usaact/ In a CNN report on reauthorization, Jake Tapper referred to these programs as “Zombie” programs. Click here to view this short zombies-inspired video released by McMorris Rodgers on Friday, March 11, 2016. Click here to read a September Washington Post op-ed by McMorris Rodgers and Tim Phillips, president of Americans for Prosperity. NOTE: H.R. ___, the Unauthorized Spending Accountability (USA) Act of 2017, puts all unauthorized programs on a pathway to sunset in three years and requires any new authorizations or reauthorizations to include a sunset clause. This means every government program will be routinely and more carefully scrutinized and updated by the People’s representatives. The following 27 representatives have cosponsored McMorris Rodgers’ legislation: Rep. Joe Barton (R-TX), Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT), Rep. Rod Blum (R-IA), Rep. Ken Buck (R-CO), Rep. Michael Burgess (R-TX), Rep. Bradley Byrne (R-AL), Rep. Steve Chabot (R-OH), Rep. Kevin Cramer (R-ND), Rep. Tom Emmer (R-MN), Rep. Blake Farenthold (R-TX), Rep. Bill Flores (R-TX), Rep. Richard Hudson (R-NC), Rep. Lynn Jenkins (R-KS), Rep. Jim Jordan (R-OH), Barry Loudermilk (R-GA), Rep. Tom McClintock (R-CA), Rep. Luke Messer (R-IN), Rep. Pete Olson (R-TX), Rep. Gary Palmer (R-AL), Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-TX), Rep. Jim Renacci (R-OH), Rep. Phil Roe (R-TN), Rep. Jason Smith (R-MO), Rep. Chris Stewart (R-UT), Rep. Ann Wagner (R-MO), Rep. Mark Walker (R-NC), Rep. Ted Yoho (R-FL) WHAT PEOPLE ARE SAYING ABOUT THE USA ACT: “Your legislation would help empower Congress to better exercise its power of the purse by requiring the periodic authorization of federal programs [….]We commend you on your thoughtful approach to increasing accountability, which will result in reducing unnecessary federal spending.” —Letter of support by more than 20 groups “Thankfully there are some members who are willing to stand up for good governance and reining in spending. […] The Unauthorized Spending Accountability Act (USA Act) lends guidance to many conservatives’ wishes of restoring regular order and accountability to the budget process. Lawmakers that are serious about reversing the trend of runaway spending in Washington should support McMorris Rodgers’s legislation that gets at the heart of the problem of unauthorized spending.” —Americans for Prosperity “The USA Act is an excellent piece of legislation that will bring more accountability and oversight to federal spending. National Taxpayers Union is pleased to endorse this bill, the passage of which would be a huge win for taxpayers.” —National Taxpayers Union “CCAGW has long supported the enactment of sunset legislation. The USA Act is an important step toward the goal of subjecting all federal programs and agencies to a periodic review. The number and cost of unauthorized programs is now equal to more than half of the non-defense discretionary budget, which is unnecessary and unacceptable. The USA Act will compel authorizing committees to do their job more effectively and give taxpayers a much better idea of which programs are effective or essential, and which should be eliminated or pared back.” —Citizens Against Government Waste “The Unauthorized Spending Accountability (USA) Act is an obvious step toward getting our fiscal house in order. Unauthorized appropriations are an increasingly large chunk of the federal budget, and our nearly $20 trillion national debt necessitates that we take action. The USA Act is a straightforward option for getting Congress to follow its own rules, and we strongly urge every member of Congress to support this legislation.” —Coalition to Reduce Spending “Separation of powers is one of the United States government’s most basic principles. But for several decades, presidents from both parties have gradually concentrated more and more power in the executive branch, at the expense of Congress and the judiciary. A bill introduced today from Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-Wash.), the Unauthorized Spending Accountability (USA) Act of 2017, seeks to rebalance a tilted scale. It would tackle unauthorized executive branch programs, hold Congress accountable for those programs, and create a commission to assess proper oversight of mandatory spending programs. Restoring a proper separation of powers is a tall order and the USA Act is no panacea for all of government’s ills, but it would mark an important step in a crucial area of reform.” –Competitive Enterprise Institute # # #
04.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (April 24, 2017) — House Republican Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) released the following statement on Yom Hashoah, Holocaust Remembrance Day, which marks the anniversary of the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising. “Today marks Holocaust Remembrance Day, Yom Hashoah, as all the world recalls the terrible events of the Twentieth Century when Nazis systematically murdered six million Jews. “From those ashes, and from the unstoppable determination of a great people, the State of Israel was born, and since that time no country has been a closer ally or greater friend to the United States. “We mark this day as a special anniversary: it’s not of the first Jews forced out of their jobs by a German law, or of the first Jews transported into resettlement camps, or of the outbreak of WWII, or of the first death camps being built. All those were milestones, but Holocaust Remembrance Day marks a different anniversary. “It commemorates the day when Jews fought back. In the 1943 Warsaw Ghetto Uprising, Polish Jews refused to surrender meekly to German officers and be shipped to their certain deaths. They fought impossible odds against the Wehrmacht, to live if only for a short time as free men and women. This is the lesson I teach my children — that the fight for human dignity cannot be extinguished by any government decree or acts of brutality. “We remember this lesson every time we see an Israeli flag flying proudly above a free nation. We remember and pledge the Holocaust must never again happen.”
04.23.2017	Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) had a full week in our community meeting with groups and citizens on a variety of issues, hearing their concerns, and updating everyone on what she is working on. On Monday, she began the day at Spokane International Airport where she greeted WWII, Korean, and Vietnam War veterans as they embarked on a trip to the nation’s capital as part of the Inland Northwest Honor Flight. As she said on her Twitter, “Inland Northwest Honor Flight is such an amazing way to honor our veterans for everything they have done to keep our country safe and free.” Then, Rep. McMorris Rodgers hosted a meeting with local agriculture bankers to discuss issues facing our farming communities and financing for local farmers in Eastern Washington. Later in the morning, Rep. McMorris Rodgers hosted another Coffee with Cathy event. Guests who have reached out to request a meeting with the Congresswoman were invited to sit down, in a productive and conversational environment, to discuss the big issues facing Eastern Washington and our country. These events are just another way Rep. McMorris Rodgers is connecting directly with folks in Eastern Washington to hear their thoughts. In the afternoon, the Congresswoman made her way down to Colfax to host a Farm Bill Listening Session. The Farm Bill is the most important legislation impacting our agriculture communities. As Congress prepares to move forward with the Farm Bill in the next year, it’s important to hear directly from everyone here in Eastern Washington about the issues facing them, their farms, and their families. On Tuesday, she met with the Walla Walla Valley Disability Network to talk about local resources and programs for those with disabilities, many of which the group leads, and Medicaid and health care reform. As she said on her Facebook: “I told the group that I am committed to protecting those with pre-existing conditions, and ensuring Medicaid is protected for those vulnerable populations — like individuals with disabilities — who truly need it. I’ve also recently introduced legislation to help those with disabilities save their work income and still remain eligible for disability benefits. This legislation, called ABLE to Work, is part of a package of bills called ‘ABLE 2.0’ that improves the ABLE Act, which passed in 2014 and created tax-free savings accounts (modeled after 529 education savings accounts) for people with disabilities. I want to help all people, and especially people with disabilities, live their lives to the fullest. Thanks to those in the disability community who are making a difference every day.” She then hosted a Coffee with Cathy with Walla Walla Progressives, where she heard from them about their concerns and shared her thoughts on a variety of issues. The Congresswoman believes it’s important to come to the table to have courageous conversations and find common ground. Following her Coffee with Cathy, the Congresswoman toured Key Technology and discussed tax reform and manufacturing in the United States. The Congresswoman believes the tax code should be fair, simple, and transparent. We haven’t had a fundamental change in the tax code since 1986, and over time the tax code has become increasingly complex and uncompetitive internationally. Currently, the United States has one of the most uncompetitive taxation systems in the developed world. This has incentivized companies to relocate abroad, and has been the catalyst for the growing trend of corporate inversions we see today. In the House, the Ways and Means Committee set out last year to develop an aggressive tax reform blueprint that would create jobs, increase economic growth, reduce tax rates, simplify the tax code, and incentivize companies to relocate in the United States. The Congresswoman shared her thoughts about #TaxDay on her Facebook page, saying: “Tax Day is a painful reminder that our tax code needs to be reformed. I hear everyday from people in Eastern Washington who tell me the tax code is too complex. I believe you should be able to keep more of your hard-earned money and that our tax code should be fair, simple, and transparent. I’d like to see a tax code that promotes job growth and rewards hard work. My colleagues in the House and I have been working on a plan to reform our tax code, and we’re looking forward to tackling tax reform later this year.” In the afternoon, the Congresswoman traveled from Walla Walla to Colfax to hear from a group of regional stakeholders about local transportation and infrastructure needs. This meeting focused on the region encompassing Whitman, Asotin, and Garfield Counties. In addition to transportation, the conversation touched on regulatory reform. On Wednesday, the Congresswoman began the day at Mt. Spokane High School where she met with students to discuss business in our country and how we create jobs and opportunities here in America. Then, Rep. McMorris Rodgers headed up to Northeastern Washington to spend the day in Colville. She hosted an Ambulance Roundtable with area leaders from across the northern part of the district to discuss what can be done about rural ambulance services. As she said on her Facebook page: “The group represented several transport agencies from 4 counties, the CEO of Colville’s hospital, county government, and a volunteer fire district. The closing of the Newport Ambulance was a blow to the area, and I’m concerned about the Stevens County Sheriff’s ambulance’s ability to stay open. Our discussion today focused on identifying the root cause of what is causing rural ambulances to suffer, and considering solutions to provide a secure future for ambulances.” Later, the Congresswoman met with Ron Rehn, the CEO of Providence Mount Carmel Hospital, to talk about the veterans choice program. Earlier this week she applauded President Trump for signing legislation to improve and extend the program. She then hosted a Forest Roundtable with officials, organizational leaders, and other stakeholders to talk about the Colville A to Z project, her Timber Innovation Act, the Secure Rural Schools program, and other issues facing these communities who depend on federal forests and the industry they provide. On Thursday, Rep. McMorris Rodgers met with The Arc of Spokane to discuss issues facing people with disabilities and their families. At the meeting, Rep. McMorris Rodgers heard concerns from parents, families, and local advocates for individuals with disabilities and reaffirmed her commitment to protecting people with pre-existing conditions. Medicaid is vital to people with disabilities, and the Congresswoman shared her commitment to strengthen and preserve Medicaid so that families can have the assurance that their children and loved ones will have access to important medical care. As the House moves forward with their efforts to repeal Obamacare and replace it with conservative reforms to increase competition, lower costs, and put patients back at the center of their health care, Rep. McMorris Rodgers remains committed to fighting for Medicaid and strengthening the program for generations to come. The Congresswoman now heads back to the nation’s capital to continue her work implementing an aggressive agenda that creates jobs, grows the economy, and reduces the regulatory burden on all Americans. # # #
04.17.2017	WALLA WALLA, WA (April 17, 2017) — Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) had a full schedule today in our community meeting with groups and citizens on a variety of issues, hearing their concerns, and updating everyone on what she is working on. She began the day at Spokane International Airport where she greeted WWII, Korean, and Vietnam War veterans as they embarked on a trip to the nation’s capital as part of the Inland Northwest Honor Flight. As she said on her Twitter, Inland Northwest Honor Flight is such an amazing way to honor our veterans for everything they have done to keep our country safe and free. Then, Rep. McMorris Rodgers hosted a meeting with local agriculture bankers to discuss issues facing our farming communities and financing for local farmers in Eastern Washington. Later in the morning, Rep. McMorris Rodgers hosted another Coffee with Cathy event. Guests who have reached out to request a meeting with the Congresswoman were invited to sit down, in a productive and conversational environment, to discuss the big issues facing Eastern Washington and our country. These events are just another way Rep. McMorris Rodgers is connecting directly with folks in Eastern Washington to hear their thoughts. In the afternoon, the Congresswoman made her way down to Colfax to host a Farm Bill Listening Session. The Farm Bill is the most important legislation impacting our agriculture communities. As Congress prepares to move forward with the Farm Bill in the next year, it’s important to hear directly from people in Eastern Washington about the issues facing them, their farms, and their families. Tomorrow, Rep. McMorris Rodgers will be in Walla Walla, Colfax, and Pullman hosting more meetings to hear the thoughts and concerns of people all across Eastern Washington. FOR PLANNING PURPOSES ONLY: The Congresswoman has released the following schedule of tomorrow’s events: Tuesday, April 18th, 2017 8:00 AM: Meeting with Walla Walla Valley Disability Network Location: Courtyard Marriott, 550 West Rose Street, Walla Walla, WA Open Press – please contact Molly.Drenkard@mail.house.gov or Jared.Powell@mail.house.gov to RSVP 9:00 AM: Coffee with Cathy with Walla Walla Progressives Closed Press 10:30 AM: Tour of Key Technology Location: 150 Avery St, Walla Walla, WA 99362 Closed Press 1:30 PM: Travel from Walla Walla to Colfax 3:30 PM: Transportation and Infrastructure Meeting and Listening Session Location: The Center at Whitman County Rural Library, 110 South Main, Colfax, WA Open Press – please contact Molly.Drenkard@mail.house.gov or Jared.Powell@mail.house.gov to RSVP 4:30 PM: Travel from Colfax to Pullman 5:00 PM: Tour of Little Edisons School Location: 2560 NE Hopkins Court, Pullman, WA 99163 Closed Press 7:00 PM: Travel from Pullman to Spokane # # #
04.14.2017	SPOKANE, WA (April 14, 2017) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) spent the day in Spokane meeting with and hearing from local community leaders. She began the day attending the Greater Spokane Incorporated “Let Freedom Ring Breakfast” to honor military men and women from our community who serve and protect the freedoms we enjoy every day. She offered remarks to thank those in attendance for their service and for all they do, day in and day out, to keep our country safe and free. Later in the morning, the Congresswoman hosted another Coffee with Cathy event to meet with people who reached and and wanted to voice their thoughts and concerns on a variety of issues. This is part of her continued effort to connect directly with folks in Eastern Washington, in a format to hear their thoughts, concerns, and questions in a productive fashion. Rep. McMorris Rodgers finished her morning by meeting with the Better Health Together Board to discuss their work on transformative Medicaid programs in Washington state. The Congresswoman is focused on how to create a 21st Century health care system that will provide quality and affordable health care to all Americans. Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers will not be hosting any public events on Saturday, April 15th or Sunday, April 16th. On Monday, April 17th, the Congresswoman will be in Spokane, Colfax and Walla Walla meeting with people and groups on a variety of issues. She has released the following schedule of events: Monday, April 17th, 2017 5:45 AM Honor Flight Send Off Location: Alaska Airlines Baggage claim area at Spokane Airport Open Press – please contact Molly.Drenkard@mail.house.gov or Jared.Powell@mail.house.gov to RSVP More details here: https://www.facebook.com/permalink.php?story_fbid=1135744559867277&id=180066198768456 9:45 AM Meeting with Agriculture Bankers Closed Press 11:00 AM Coffee with Cathy Location: Rep. McMorris Rodgers’ Spokane Office Description: Coffee with Cathy attendees are chosen on a first-come, first serve basis. Attendees are those who reached out to the Congresswoman’s office and asked for an appointment. Topics are usually a grab bag of issues or can center around one particular issue. Closed press 3:45 PM Travel from Spokane to Colfax 5:00 PM Farm Bill Listening Session Location: Public Service Building, 310 N Main St Colfax, WA Open Press – please contact Molly.Drenkard@mail.house.gov or Jared.Powell@mail.house.gov to RSVP 6:00 PM Travel from Colfax to Walla Walla # # #
04.13.2017	SPOKANE, WA (April 13, 2017) – Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) spent the day in Spokane meeting with and hearing from the people of Eastern Washington. She began the day by visiting the KXLY and KZZU studios to update everyone on the work she’s been doing to empower people with disabilities and to reform our broken health care system and tax code. Following these interviews, Rep. McMorris Rodgers hosted a Coffee with Cathy event to hear directly from the people she represents on a variety of issues. Following her Coffee with Cathy event, the Congresswoman met with Regina Malveau, Executive Director of the YWCA and Jeanette Hauck, Chief Financial Officer of the YWCA. They discussed the President’s budget proposal, and how we work to fix our broken health care system so that we can provide quality and affordable health care to everyone in Eastern Washington and across the country. Rep. McMorris Rodgers then hosted local leaders and advocates for a Transportation and Infrastructure Meeting and Listening Session. President Trump has made infrastructure a priority, and the Congresswoman is committed to ensuring we modernize our infrastructure so it can continue serving our communities for generations to come. In the afternoon, Rep. McMorris Rodgers had the pleasure of presenting the Gonzaga Men’s Basketball Team with a Congressional Record honoring their great season and achievements in making it to the National Championship Game. You can read the Congressional Record here. Then, the Congresswoman joined NAACP President Phil Tyler and other local leaders for another Peaceful Communities Roundtable. This third roundtable continues the courageous conversations about how to move from poverty to opportunity, from racism to gracism, and from divisiveness to security, so neighbors, friends, and communities are strengthened and unified. The Congresswoman is committed to continuing these conversations to help bring the community together and make it the best place to live. In the evening, Rep. McMorris Rodgers held a meet and greet with the Chase Youth Commission Award Winners to honor their accomplishments and thank the commission for recognizing outstanding youth in our community. Finally, Rep. McMorris Rodgers ended the day with a Unity Dinner to bring together members of the community and get to know them in a less formal setting. Tomorrow, Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) will be in Spokane continuing to travel around the area and hear from the people she represents. She has released the following schedule of events for tomorrow, April 14, 2017. Friday, April 14th, 2017 7:15 AM Greater Spokane Incorporated Let Freedom Ring Breakfast Northern Quest Casino Open Press – please contact Molly.Drenkard@mail.house.gov or Jared.Powell@mail.house.gov to RSVP 9:40 AM Coffee with Cathy Rep. McMorris Rodgers’ Spokane Office Description: Coffee with Cathy attendees are chosen on a first-come, first serve basis. Attendees are those who reached out to the Congresswoman’s office and asked for an appointment. Topics are usually a grab bag of issues or can center around one particular issue. Closed press 10:30 AM Meeting with Better Health Together Board Location: Spokane Club, Gourmet Room Closed Press # # #
04.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (April 7, 2017) — Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today applauding the Senate confirmation of Justice Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court: “Today is a day for celebration. Watching Justice Gorsuch’s confirmation hearings, there was no doubt in my mind that President Trump nominated the right man for this responsibility. He is a truly humble, intelligent, and qualified judge. With an unwavering sense of duty to the rule of law and to his country, I know he will be a steadfast guardian of our Constitution on the high court. Thank you to our Senate colleagues for confirming Justice Gorsuch. The late Justice Scalia’s vacancy has been filled by a worthy successor.” # # #
04.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (April 7, 2017) — Today, Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released this statement following the air strike carried out on a Syrian air base by President Donald Trump: “I support the President’s responsible action last night. Families should be able to go about their daily lives without fear of terrorism. For the Syrian people living under Assad’s reign of terror, fear is their daily reality. With the administration’s tactical military action last night, we demonstrate that the free world stands against these bad actors. I look forward to hearing more details from the White House and their engagement with Congress on any further action.” # # #
04.04.2017	Bipartisan Legislation to Enhance ABLE Account WASHINGTON, D.C. (April 4, 2017)— Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), along with Congressmen Pete Sessions (R-TX), Tony Cárdenas (D-CA), Chris Smith (R-NJ), and Jim Langevin (D-RI) today introduced a package of bills to enhance the Achieving a Better Life Experience (ABLE) Act of 2014. The package includes the ABLE to Work Act, the ABLE Financial Planning Act, and the ABLE Age Adjustment Act. “A job is so much more than a paycheck. It’s what gives you purpose and dignity. It’s the opportunity for a better life, and that’s what we’re doing with ABLE 2.0, specifically the ABLE to Work Act,” said McMorris Rodgers, the bill’s lead. “Too often, people with disabilities live in poverty because the current system forces them to make a choice between disability benefits and work. This legislation empowers people with disabilities to save the money they earn from work while remaining eligible for the critical disability safety net. At the end of the day, this is about empowering people with disabilities, like my son Cole, to live their fullest, independent life.” “As the proud father of the Down syndrome young man I worked tirelessly with my colleagues to get this critical piece of legislation signed into law,” said Congressman Pete Sessions (R-TX). “While this law was a monumental step for individuals with disabilities, today’s package will strengthen the existing law to ensure individuals with disabilities, like my son, Alex, have the opportunities they need to break through the glass ceiling and achieve a bigger, brighter future.” “ABLE accounts already help thousands of Americans with disabilities live a fuller life,” said Congressman Tony Cárdenas (D-CA). “This legislation builds on that progress and eases the financial burden that many of these families face. ABLE 2.0 expands opportunities for families to save for the future and support their children’s dreams. I’m proud to help introduce this bipartisan legislation.” “As the founder and co-chair of the Coalition for Autism Research and Education, I understand the financial demands of raising a child with support needs,” said Congressman Chris Smith (R-NJ). “Education, housing, transportation, employment support, medical care and other life expenses can quickly add up for persons with disabilities. I urge quick passage of this legislation.” “The ABLE Act has promoted greater financial independence by protecting people with disabilities from losing the very services and supports they rely on to live productive and fulfilling lives in their communities,” said Congressman Jim Langevin (D-RI), founder and co-chair of the Bipartisan Disabilities Caucus. “I’m proud to join my colleagues in introducing these bills to strengthen the current law and enable people with disabilities to find employment, save their hard-earned money, and achieve higher levels of financial empowerment.” NOTE: The ABLE 2.0 package includes three bills. The ABLE to Work Act allows individuals and families to save more money — up to the federal poverty level — in their accounts if the beneficiary works and earns income. The ABLE Financial Planning Act allows families to roll over savings in a 529 college savings plan into an ABLE account and prevents these funds from being trapped or fined if a child is born with a disability or acquires one later in life. The ABLE Age Adjustment Act raises the age limit for ABLE accounts from 26 to 46, helping people whose disability or disease develops later in life. For more information about the legislation, visit www.mcmorris.house.gov/able. # # #
03.31.2017	Since 1982, young people from across the country have had the opportunity to display their art inside the United States Capitol – and this year is no different. Eastern Washington’s winner will display his or her piece of art for the thousands of visitors who come to our nation’s Capitol, and three runners-up will have the chance to display their entries in the Congresswoman’s Spokane, Colville, and Walla Walla offices. The winning student will be invited to Washington, D.C. for a ribbon-cutting ceremony and will have his or her artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. Students grade 9-12 are encouraged to submit various styles and types of art, ranging from paintings and drawings to photography and mixed media pieces. The artwork must be original in design, no more than 15 lbs., no larger than 26” X 26” X 4,” and be prepared for hanging. Three runners-up will have their artwork on display in the Congresswoman’s Spokane, Colville, and Walla Walla offices. Each student may submit one piece of artwork. Accepted mediums for the two-dimensional artwork are as follows: Paintings: oil, acrylics, watercolor, etc. Drawings: colored pencil, pencil, ink, marker, pastels, charcoal (It is recommended that charcoal and pastel drawings be fixed.) Collages: must be two dimensional Prints: lithographs, silkscreen, block prints Mixed Media: use of more than two mediums such as pencil, ink, watercolor, etc. Computer-generated art Photographs A TYPED copy of the 2017 Student Release Form, signed by the teacher, a parent or guardian, and the student, must be securely attached to the back of the artwork to certify the originality of the piece. Please retain a copy for your records. Submissions may be brought to the Congresswoman’s offices in Spokane, Walla Walla, or Colville. The winner of the competition will also receive two airline tickets to attend the Congressional Art Competition Reception in Washington, D.C. and see his or her artwork as it is displayed. The deadline for submission is April 26, 2017 by 5:00 PM PST. For any further questions, contact Jessie Laughery at 509-353-2374.
03.30.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (March 30, 2017) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) and Congresswoman Terri Sewell (D-AL) today introduced the Cancer Care Payment Reform Act of 2017 , which builds upon the success seen in oncology pilot programs to provide better treatment outcomes in a more cost-efficient way. Following introduction of this legislation, Rep. McMorris Rodgers and Rep. Terri Sewell released the following statements: “Medical breakthroughs continue to provide hope to millions of Americans, including cancer patients, and advancements in science have made it possible for cancer patients to receive care in their community and closer to home. My legislation updates the Medicare payment process to focus on comprehensive, patient-centered care that puts quality over quantity,” said McMorris Rodgers. “As we continue to search for a cure to cancer, models like this ensure that care is more results-driven and cost-effective for the patient and our nation’s health care system as a whole.” “As a representative of many rural and underserved communities with a high prevalence of poor health outcomes, I believe we should be laser focused on ensuring all patients have access to high-quality, affordable care and treatment close to home,” said Rep. Sewell. “I am proud to sponsor the bipartisan Cancer Care Payment Reform Act with Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers as a means of ensuring cancer patients have access to lifesaving cancer treatment in their community, while promoting revolutionary approaches to the delivery and payment for cancer care. Reducing financial barriers to cancer care is critical to eliminate both the human and financial costs associated with cancer for patients, loved ones, physicians, and the entire economy.” This legislation provides a framework for enhancing the quality of cancer care by establishing a national oncology medical home demonstration project under the Medicare program. This project will require medical practices that volunteer to participate to report on a number of quality metrics and on overall patient satisfaction. These metrics will then be used to compare practices and treatment methods in order to determine what approaches generate the best value and best result for the patient. NOTE: Rep. McMorris Rodgers also introduced this legislation in 2015. # # #
03.28.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (March 28, 2017) – In response to a pervasive lack of legal assistance for domestic violence survivors, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) joined Congressman Joe Kennedy III (D-MA) today in introducing the bipartisan POWER Act, which would help connect victims with legal representation. Studies have shown that survivors who can afford or access a lawyer successfully obtain restraining orders in 83% of cases, compared to 32% without a lawyer. The bill is also co-sponsored by Congressman Don Young (R-AK), Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard (D-HI), and Congresswoman Susan Brooks (R-IN). “Lack of access to legal representation allows fear and intimidation to follow sexual and domestic violence survivors into our courtrooms,” said Congressman Kennedy. “It undermines our justice system’s guarantee of equal protection at the moment that protection matters most. For the millions of domestic violence victims across our country, the POWER Act will help restore the sacred promise.” The POWER Act would require each U.S. Attorney’s office to annually host a public event supporting pro bono legal services for survivors of sexual and domestic violence. The U.S. Attorneys would report to the Department of Justice which will then compile a single report to Congress each year summarizing the events and discussing their effectiveness. “When it often feels there is nowhere else to turn, survivors of domestic violence should know that there are resources available to them,” said Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers. “This legislation encourages survivors to step out of the shadows, and break free from the cycle of abuse.” “I am proud to join Representative Kennedy in re-introducing the POWER Act in the 115th Congress,” said Congressman Don Young. “This legislation, which directs US Attorneys to hold annual events supporting pro bono legal services for victims of domestic violence and sexual assault, would make it much easier for victims of these terrible crimes to secure legal representation and justice. We must do all we can to support the victims of these terrible crimes, and the POWER Act serves as one step to achieve that goal.” “Survivors of domestic violence are not guaranteed access to a lawyer, a fact which can trap survivors in a cycle of abuse and prevent them from securing critical protective orders,” said Congresswoman Susan Brooks. “Civil legal services provide vital resources and advice to survivors and help them get out of abusive situations. Too often, survivors aren’t aware of or able to gain access to the legal resources available to them. The POWER Act will help connect victims of domestic violence to legal aid, empower survivors and raise awareness about the need for pro bono legal services.” Senators Dan Sullivan (R-AK) and Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND), introduced a companion version in the Senate. “Pro bono assistance from our nation’s legal community has been a particularly helpful tool in giving hope to victims of domestic violence,” said Senator Dan Sullivan. “The POWER Act will bring this tool to more communities, encouraging lawyers across the country to get involved and help victims who too often fear or are unfamiliar with the justice system. It will create an army of pro-bono attorneys nationwide that will turn victims into survivors. I am optimistic that in the new Congress, with bills introduced in both chambers and a number of new colleagues signing on, we can get the POWER Act passed and onto President Trump’s desk.” “No victim of domestic violence should have to live in fear for their safety because they can’t afford legal protection, but for too many voiceless women and men across the country, that every day fear is their reality. We can do better,” said Senator Heidi Heitkamp. “By making sure legal services are available to domestic violence victims, our bipartisan bill seeks to help end the cycle of violence that imprisons so many across this country. As former Attorneys General, Senator Sullivan and I both understand how the lack of access to legal services can prevent survivors from finding the assistance necessary to stop the cycle of abuse and escape their abuser. That’s why our bill asks U.S. Attorneys across the country to prioritize pro-bono legal work or services to address domestic violence in their states – particularly for the most vulnerable populations like women in North Dakota’s Indian Country – so victims of domestic violence can obtain the services and information they need to finally walk away from their abusers and move forward with their lives.” ###
03.27.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (March 27, 2017)–Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today after cosponsoring the “Combating Anti-Semitism Act,” which ensures that people who threaten religious centers with violence are prosecuted for committing a hate crime. This legislation is in direct response to the rise of bomb threats and violence targeted at Jewish Community Centers across the nation. “In light of the recent string of threats, vandalism, and hate crimes at Jewish Community Centers and cemeteries across the country, I am reaffirming to our Jewish communities that we stand strong with them. In Spokane, we’ve seen a rise in hate-related incidents, and in Mercer Island, a bomb threat was directed at the Stroum Jewish Community Center. In America, we have a moral imperative to ensure that no matter your background, religion, or walk of life, you are safe and free to worship whatever religion you choose without fear. We’re united under one flag, and one Constitution that guarantees life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, and the ‘Combating Anti-Semitism Act’ reaffirms this.” The Congresswoman’s remarks as prepared for delivery: Mr. Speaker, I rise today to make it very clear: The People’s House stands strong against prejudice. Since January, we’ve seen a disturbing rise of bomb threats and violence targeted at Jewish Community Centers all over the country Including the Stroum Jewish Community Center in Mercer Island, Washington. Our nation is better than this! Today, I’m joining one of the strongest leaders I know on this issue — Representative David Kustoff– in introducing the “Combating Anti-Semitism Act.” This bill is a direct response to the bad actors who are terrorizing our neighbors and friends. If you threaten someone because of who, or how, they worship …this bill ensures you’ll be prosecuted for committing a hate crime. No matter your background, your religion, or your walk of life, you should be safe and free to worship without fear in this country. With this bill, we’re supporting our Jewish Communities all across the country, and I am proud to give my full support. In response to the recent acts of hate around Spokane and a disparaging Guardian article, the Congresswoman released this video today sharing her thoughts on why Eastern Washington is a great place to live, saying “No matter where you go in the world, whenever you meet someone from Eastern Washington, you know you’ve met a kindred spirit.” NOTE: Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers has been actively working with the Spokane NAACP and community leaders to push back against the recent racist and hateful acts occurring around Spokane. In January and February, the Congresswoman participated in the Spokane NAACP’s “Peaceful Communities Roundtable” discussion and penned an op-ed in TIME about unity. # # #
03.24.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (March 24, 2017)–Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement on the American Health Care Act: “Although I’m disappointed we couldn’t find consensus on how to repeal and replace Obamacare, I’m optimistic about the agenda House Republicans have proposed. I’m eager to continue work on the many issues that are important to people in Eastern Washington and around the country, like lowering taxes and putting the people back at the center of our government.” # # #
03.19.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (March 19, 2017)–This morning, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, joined Maria Bartiromo on Fox News’ Sunday Morning Futures to discuss the American Health Care Act. KEY QUOTES: On the open and transparent process: “This has all along been a very open and transparent process. We’re listening to people — we were in the Energy and Commerce Committee last week; Ways and Means; Budget; and now we’re moving to the floor. And every step of the way we’ve been listening and perfecting this bill.” On Republican support for the bill: “Republicans have long been united around the goal of repealing and replacing Obamacare. We believe that is the way we ensure a better future– a better health care future– for everyone in this country. This is our opportunity, this is our time to act, and we must act.” On Medicaid: We are making reforms to Medicaid — the first time in 52 years. Now, I think it’s important to recognize that Medicaid is a very important safety net. It is intended for some of our most vulnerable, those with disabilities, low income pregnant women, and children, and seniors. What Obamacare did was expand Medicaid to able-bodied adults. When you look at who signed up, it was largely these able-bodied adults that under Obamacare didn’t have any other option. Millions of Americans who liked their health care plan were forced onto Medicaid, were forced onto the exchanges. We’re working to empower the states to best structure Medicaid. So, some of the details are how we responsibly unwind Medicaid, what is that way to deal with those that were part of the expansion population. We’re ensuring that they are protected, that they won’t have the rug pulled out from underneath them, but we want to return it to the states. We want to give states the opportunity to structure this program in a way that is best going to meet the needs of the individuals and families in those states most in need.” On the three phases of repealing and replacing Obamacare: “What we have proposed is path that will repeal and replace Obamacare. We start with the bill that we put on the President’s desk that President Obama vetoed, so that is the repeal bill of Obamacare, and then we add to it the transition items that are going to make for a smooth transition, and we’re adding the tax credits, the Medicaid reform, the expansion of the health savings accounts. And then phase two is what they can do in the administration under Secretary Tom Price, the deregulation — there’s over 1,400 provisions within the Affordable Care Act where the administration did the details and actually wrote the rules and regulations, and Tom Price is going to review all of that. And then phase three is what will require 60 votes in the Senate, and those are the policy items, like [buying insurance] across state lines, association health plans, other bipartisan health care policy that we will be able to figure out how we get to 60 votes and get it on to the President’s desk.” # # #
03.18.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (Saturday, March 18)–Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, will appear on Fox News’ Sunday Morning Futures with Maria Bartiromo to discuss the American Health Care Act. Details: Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers on Sunday Morning Futures Sunday, March 19 at 7 AM PT / 10 AM ET Topic: American Health Care Act As the Congresswoman said on Fox News earlier this week: “We’re working through the legislative process. We’re on track. We’ve been doing this in an open, transparent way. You’ve seen us work through the committee process… and our goal is to put it on the floor next week. We believe that action is necessary right now.” Media and Interviews from this week: Friday, March 17: Fox News – America’s Newsroom Friday, March 17: MSNBC – Hallie Jackson Friday, March 17: Press Conference with HHS Secretary Tom Price Thursday, March 16: Fox Business – Charles Payne Wednesday, March 15: King 5 – Natalie Brand Wednesday, March 15: House Republican Leadership Press Conference Tuesday, March 14: Hugh Hewitt Monday, March 13: Lars Larson # # #
03.17.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (March 17, 2017) — Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today announced staff-led mobile office hours, which will be held across Eastern Washington throughout March and April. Rep. McMorris Rodgers has offices located in Colville, Spokane, and Walla Walla, and mobile office hours offer people living outside of those areas a chance to connect with the Congresswoman’s staff without having to travel to those three cities. The mobile office times, dates and locations are: Wednesday, Mar. 29 Pomeroy: Garfield County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers, 789 Main St, 9:00 AM – 10:30 AM Dayton: Port of Columbia Office, Conference Room, 1 Port Way, 1:00 PM – 2:30 PM Monday, Apr. 3 Republic: Northern Inn, 852 S Clark Ave, 2:00 PM – 3:30 PM Thursday, Apr. 13 Colfax: Whitman County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers, 400 N Main St, 10:00 AM – 11:30 AM Clarkston: SEWEDA Office, Conference Room, 845 Port Way, 1:00 PM – 2:30 PM Wednesday, Apr. 26 Davenport: Lincoln County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers, 450 Logan St, 10:00 AM – 11:30 AM Newport: Pend Oreille County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers, 625 W 4th St, 2:00 PM – 3:30 PM Those who need assistance with a federal agency or would like to voice an opinion on federal issues are encouraged to come by—no appointment necessary. Staff members will be ready and available to discuss resolving issues with federal agencies and federal government resources. All are still welcome to contact the three main offices in Eastern Washington: Colville office: 555 South Main Street, Colville, WA 99114, Phone: 509-684-3481 Spokane office: 10 North Post Street, Suite 625, Spokane, WA 99201, Phone: 509-353-2374 Walla Walla office: 26 E. Main Street, Suite 2, Walla Walla, WA 99362, Phone: 509-529-9358 # # #
03.17.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (March 17, 2017) — Yesterday, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) joined Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) in introducing a bipartisan resolution declaring support for National Brain Awareness Week. Co-Chairs of the Congressional Neuroscience Caucus, Rep. McMorris Rodgers and Rep. Blumenauer, joined forces to formally acknowledge this week. You can read the resolution here: House Res. 204, Declaring support for Brain Awareness Week. WHEREAS, more than 1,000 neurological and neurodegenerative diseases, such as schizophrenia, traumatic brain injury, autism and Parkinson’s disease affect the lives of nearly 100 million Americans; WHEREAS, neurological and neurodegenerative diseases are the leading contributors to global disease burden; WHEREAS, neurological illnesses and mental disorders cost the United States more than $760 billion per year and can only be decreased through improved prevention, treatment, and the development of cures; WHEREAS, the Brain Research through Advancing Innovative Neurotechnologies (BRAIN) Initiative, whose multi-agency, cross-disciplinary work involves private and public entities, including the National Institutes of Health and the National Science Foundation, among others, is promoting research to develop new tools and technologies to revolutionize our understanding of the human brain and create lifesaving breakthroughs; and WHEREAS, one dollar of research funding for the National Institutes of Health and the National Science Foundation each generates more than two dollars of economic output: NOW THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, That the House of Representatives does hereby declare support for Brain Awareness Week and calls upon all Americans to recognize the valuable contributions that have been made to date in brain and spinal cord research and to support the conduct of this critical research in the future. National Brain Awareness Week is this week, March 13 through 19, 2017. The week serves as a way to bring awareness to brain-related diseases and celebrate the benefit of important brain research.
03.17.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (March 17, 2017) – This morning, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers hosted Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price for a press conference on capitol hill to talk about House Republican efforts to repeal Obamacare and replace it with a 21st Century health care system that works for every American. You can watch the press conference here: LIVE with HHS Sec. Tom Price. #AHCA. https://t.co/T5aF8zdZ6o — House Republicans (@HouseGOP) March 17, 2017 “The American Health Care Act is much more than a bill. This is a rescue mission. This is a mission to create a better health care future for every person in America.” Later in the morning, the Congresswoman joined Hallie Jackson on MSNBC to talk more about Republicans’ efforts to create a better health care future all Americans. “We’ve been working all along with President Trump, with Vice President Mike Pence, with the Senate, the House. This has been weeks, months in negotiations and in the process and we’re going to continue to work with them. I do believe it is very important that the country is hearing the details, that the country becomes more informed as to what this bill actually does. There’s been a lot of mis-characterizations. There’s been fear about what the bill does and does not do, and so I think Republicans must educate America, and I believe that as people become more informed they are going to be excited about this new direction on health care that means a better health care program for everyone in this country.” Minutes later, Rep. McMorris Rodgers joined America’s Newsroom on Fox News to talk about the open, transparent process for the American Health Care Act. As I told @BillHemmer today on @AmericaNewsroom: Our efforts on health care are on track. We’re working through the legislative process. pic.twitter.com/oX94BzErHN — CathyMcMorrisRodgers (@cathymcmorris) March 17, 2017 “We’re working through the legislative process. We’re on track. We’ve been doing this in an open, transparent way. You’ve seen us work through the committee process… and our goal is to put it on the floor next week. We believe that action is necessary right now.” # # #
03.16.2017	Watch the press conference live at 5:45 AM PT / 8:45 AM ET at https://www.facebook.com/mcmorrisrodgers/ WASHINGTON, D.C. (March 16, 2017) – Tomorrow at approximately 8:45 AM ET/ 5:45 AM PT, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, will host Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price, M.D., and other Republican Members of Congress for a press conference to mark the advancement of the efforts to repeal and replace Obamacare, including the first legislative phase – the American Health Care Act. The press conference will be live streamed on the Congresswoman’s Facebook page and can be viewed live here. Today, Rep. McMorris Rodgers joined Fox Business to talk about the three-pronged approach to creating a better health care future for all Americans. Watch the interview here: # # #
03.14.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (March 14, 2017) — Today, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) and Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA) sent a letter to Lisa Disbrow, Acting Secretary of the United States Air Force, expressing their support for the selection of Fairchild Air Force Base in Spokane, Washington, as the preferred alternative for the pending reassignment of 12 KC-135 Stratotanker aerial refueling tankers from McConnell Air Force Base. In their letter, they wrote, “Fairchild continues to be a vital location for the Air Force and a crucial base for national defense, the Air Force, and the State of Washington. Fairchild is the ideal candidate for the reassignment of the additional KC-135s because of its strategic location to support the Pacific operations, its infrastructure and capacity to cost-effectively accommodate this tanker, strong community support, and the mission expertise resulting from the classic association of the 92nd Air Refueling Wing and the 141st Air Refueling Wing. We encourage you to carefully consider these attributes and select Fairchild Air Force Base as the new location for this squadron of KC-135 tankers.” You can find the full text of the letter here and below: March 14, 2017 The Honorable Lisa Disbrow Acting Secretary of the Air Force 3000 Air Force Pentagon Washington D.C. 20350-1000 Dear Secretary Disbrow, We write to express our support for the selection of Fairchild Air Force Base in Spokane, Washington, as the preferred alternative for the pending reassignment of 12 KC-135 Stratotanker aerial refueling tankers from McConnell Air Force Base. Fairchild is the clear choice to receive these aerial refueling tankers because it meets and exceeds the basing criteria identified by the Air Force in its February 8, 2016 announcement about the reassignment. Fairchild possesses the requisite runway length, mission capability, infrastructure capacity, and other attributes that make it the most cost effective and strategic alternative for the reassignment of this squadron. Fairchild plays a vital and irreplaceable role in assuring the Air Force’s global mobility and reach, and is positioned to become the nation’s preeminent aerial refueling base. As we have previously written, Fairchild is strategically located to support the Department of Defense’s operations in the Asia-Pacific region, and is ideally positioned to support the spectrum of bilateral and multilateral training exercises, and contingency operations in the U.S. Pacific Command’s area of responsibility. The base’s location provides a decided advantage in shortening the distance to key staging bases in the Pacific. Fairchild is also within 100 nautical miles of numerous aerial refueling routes, which reduces the cost of en-route fuel and maximizes offload capabilities. It is important to recognize that Fairchild already possesses significant infrastructure to accommodate additional tankers and related personnel. The base provides substantial runway, hangar, and ramp capacity, as well as four squadron operation and maintenance facilities. The Air Force has long recognized Fairchild’s strategic importance by investing in its infrastructure, including more than $400 million over the past several years alone. These investments, which include a runway replacement, a new wing headquarters, construction of a fitness center and funding for a new dormitory for its Survival, Evasion, Resistance, Escape school, together with its existing capacity and training facilities, will maximize the resources available to support associated personnel and allow the Air Force to relocate the 12 KC-135s efficiently and cost effectively. Fairchild and the U.S. Air Force also enjoy strong community support for its missions and personnel. Spokane is home to Fairchild because, shortly after the start of World War II, Spokane businesses and public-minded citizens donated more than $125,000 to purchase 1,400 acres that were presented to the War Department to build the Spokane Army Air Depot. The community has since remained a strong partner and supporter of the base, especially through the adoption of the Joint Land Use Study by both the City of Spokane and Spokane County, which prevents future incompatible land use and development in order to protect current and future missions. In 2012, Washington State convened the Washington Military Alliance, a coalition of military and defense-related public and private stakeholder organizations to strengthen collaborative efforts supporting our state’s military and defense infrastructure. Fairchild is home to a classic association of the 92nd Air Refueling Wing with the Washington Air National Guard’s 141st Air Refueling Wing. This association combines the expertise and efficiencies of both active duty and guard components, ensuring world-class aerial refueling, airlift, and aeromedical evacuation capabilities while fostering operational innovation and efficiency. The long-standing association at Fairchild has a demonstrated record of high performance that serves as a working model of the total Air Force and an example for the air mobility community. Fairchild continues to be a vital location for the Air Force and a crucial base for national defense, the Air Force, and the State of Washington. Fairchild is the ideal candidate for the reassignment of the additional KC-135s because of its strategic location to support the Pacific operations, its infrastructure and capacity to cost-effectively accommodate this tanker, strong community support, and the mission expertise resulting from the classic association of the 92nd Air Refueling Wing and the 141st Air Refueling Wing. We encourage you to carefully consider these attributes and select Fairchild Air Force Base as the new location for this squadron of KC-135 tankers. Sincerely, ______________________ ___________________ _____________________ Cathy McMorris Rodgers Patty Murray Maria Cantwell Member of Congress United States Senator United States Senator # # #
03.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (March 13, 2017) – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) released its report on the American Health Care Act. “The CBO report confirms that House Republicans’ process to repeal and replace Obamacare will lower premiums and taxes, reduce the federal deficit, increase consumer choice, and reform Medicaid for the first time in its 52-year history. I hear the concerns people have about CBO’s projected coverage numbers. However, their score doesn’t tell the whole story. CBO doesn’t take into account future actions Congress and the Administration will take to further lower costs and increase coverage options. Our plan will open up the insurance market so more people can find plans they want at prices they can afford, while addressing the disconnect between coverage and access to care.” NOTE: The CBO estimate confirms that the American Health Care Act will lower premiums and increase access to quality, affordable care. The CBO’s estimate shows that the legislation advances the core goals of our plan to repeal and replace Obamacare: Lowers premiums by 10 percent. Reduces the federal deficit by $337 billion. Makes major entitlement reform, capping Medicaid spending for the first time, saving taxpayers $880 billion. Lowers taxes by $883 billion, providing massive tax relief for middle-income Americans and small business owners. Increases choices for consumers, creating a vibrant market where people will have more freedom and flexibility to get the plan they want. # # #
03.13.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (March 10, 2017) – This week, the National Park Service announced its offer of a one-year contract extension at the Kettle Falls Marina. Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement regarding the announcement. “I am glad the National Park Service has extended the Kettle Falls Marina contract for an additional year. The initial decision to shut down the marina would prevent opportunities to enjoy the lake and posed serious security concerns by closing down the only refueling station for miles around. As we work to find a permanent solution at the Kettle Falls Marina, this extension will allow us to work with our local community on a long-term commitment to increase recreation opportunities while meeting the needs of our area’s emergency response teams. In the meantime, I am thrilled to announce the Marina will be open this summer.” Note: In February, the Congresswoman authored a letter to Laura E. Joss, Pacific West Regional Director for the National Park Service expressing her deep concerns over the closure of longstanding recreation services at the Kettle Falls Marina and asking for clarification on how and why the decision was reached. The Congresswoman recently received word of the Park Service’s intentions of extending the contract at the marina. We understand the concessionaire will accept the extension. The Congresswoman is working with the concessionaire and the Department of Interior to find an equitable solution for a long term contract. # # #
03.07.2017	WASHINGTON. D.C. (March 7, 2017) – Earlier this week, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) announced that the Pullman-Moscow Regional Airport (PUW) would be approved for a traditional Instrument Landing System as part of the airport’s runway realignment project. Today, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement regarding this important step in the development of the Pullman-Moscow Regional Airport. “This announcement by the FAA is great news and signifies an important hurdle for the Runway Realignment Project at the Pullman-Moscow Regional Airport. This project will modernize the airport and encourage economic growth in the area, as well as expand the services and facilities available to our community. The Pullman-Moscow Regional Airport is a transportation gateway for the area, and this project will help the airport meet the needs of our community for decades to come.” Note: Rep. McMorris Rodgers has had numerous meetings with Pullman Mayor Glenn Johnson, Pullman-Moscow Regional Airport Director Tony Bean, and other local officials over the years to stay updated on the project and assist where possible to ensure it becomes a reality.
03.07.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (March 7, 2017) — Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) joined Rep. Suzan DelBene (WA-01) in introducing bipartisan legislation to support innovation in the timber industry and incentivize active forest management, the Timber Innovation Act. This legislation would open up new markets and create jobs for rural economies by providing research, assistance, and lower costs for the construction of tall wood buildings throughout the United States. It also encourages the use of cross laminated timber (CLT), which will provide new markets for the production of advanced wood buildings throughout Eastern Washington. “Washington state, and especially northeastern Washington, depends on the timber industry as a way of life,” said McMorris Rodgers. “I’ve long advocated for good stewardship of our national forests, and The Timber Innovation Act is especially a win for towns like Colville, which relies on the Colville National Forest for economic growth. This legislation incentivizes active forest management and responsible forest thinning, which will reduce the risk of wildfires and better contain them if and when they break out. This is commonsense legislation that encourages economic innovation and keeps our forests healthy.” Note: Rep. McMorris Rodgers also introduced this legislation with Rep. Suzan DelBene last congress, and continues to work to promote innovation in forest management. McMorris Rodgers has been a leader in working to support our federal forests and solve the problems facing the timber industry so we can get our forests working again. In February, the Congresswoman hosted a roundtable with the Congressional Working Forests Caucus to talk more about these issues and the future of our forests. Also, in February, Rep. McMorris Rodgers led a letter to the Office of Management and Budget requesting the extension of the Secure Rural Schools program to help support our rural communities who have been impacted by the decline of the timber industry. She’s committed to continuing to work to make sure our forests are healthy, and that they are working and supporting our rural communities all across the country. # # #
03.06.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (March 6, 2017)– Eastern Washington Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement via video today after the House introduced The American Health Care Act, the bill to repeal Obamacare: “The House just introduced The American Health Care Act. This is our plan to repeal Obamacare and replace it with a 21st century health care system that works for everyone. We are ensuring a smooth transition, and we’re doing this right – through the step-by-step, committee process. Through regular order – open hearings, open debates — we’re giving people transparency and the opportunity for input. Our legislation is about restoring people’s control over their health care. This bill ensures people with pre-existing conditions have access to care; allows young adults to stay on their parents’ plan until they are 26; helps Americans access affordable, quality health care through monthly tax credits; modernizes Medicaid and strengthens it for our most vulnerable; empowers individuals and families to save and spend their health care dollars the way they want and need; and, dismantles the Obamacare taxes and mandates. By offering more choices, we can help create a 21st Century health care system that provides affordable care, access, and choice. You can read the text of the bill at readthebill.gop.” The entire text of the bill can be viewed here.
03.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (March 3, 2017) —Yesterday, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed the Regulatory Integrity Act (H.R. 1004), which will help correct problems in the federal rulemaking process and bring much-needed transparency into regulatory actions. “I’m pleased to see the Regulatory Integrity Act passed to bring clarity, transparency, and accountability to the federal rulemaking process,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “It is against federal law for government agencies to use taxpayers’ money to lobby for rules or legislation, but that didn’t stop the EPA in 2016 from doing just that. In Washington state, the EPA may have abused its federal authority with its “What’s Upstream” campaign, which attempted to smear our farmers and ranchers. The Regulatory Integrity Act will ensure that the spirit of these laws is upheld and that situations like What’s Upstream never happen again.” NOTE: Since What’s Upstream, Rep. McMorris Rodgers has led inquiries into the use of federal funds for the campaign. In April 2016, she sent an inquiry to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to find out how much the What’s Upstream campaign cost. McMorris Rodgers requested financial records and was met with little cooperation from the EPA’s Region 10. She also joined a letter led by Rep. Dan Newhouse (WA-04) asking for the EPA to disclose the costs associated with the campaign.
03.01.2017	Washington, D.C. (March 1, 2017) — Yesterday, Eastern Washington Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) shared her thoughts about what she wanted to see from the President’s Joint Address to Congress. After the President’s speech, the Congresswoman weighed in and expressed her support for his optimistic vision. In case you missed it, McMorris Rodgers’ official statement may be viewed here on Facebook In the morning, the Congresswoman spoke at the weekly House Republican Leadership press conference about her excitement for the President’s Joint Address, where she also recapped her most recent meetings across Eastern Washington: “As I was in Walla Walla visiting and celebrating a new veterans home, in Spokane visiting a school for the hearing impaired, or in the community bringing people together to talk about how we unify around shared goals, I was reminded that it’s most important to listen to one another and focus on the values that unite us as Americans.” I was reminded again last week that the best ideas come from people all across this country. As I was in Walla Walla visiting and celebrating a new veterans home, in Spokane visiting a school for the hearing impaired, or in the community bringing people together to talk about how we unify around shared goals, I was reminded that it’s most important to listen to one another and focus on the values that unite us as Americans. Posted by Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers on Tuesday, February 28, 2017 In the afternoon, the Congresswoman sat down with Independent Journal Review for Facebook Live, where she looked forward to President Trump’s, “hopeful vision for America that people want to hear.” I’m LIVE with IJR Politics talking about what to expect from tonight’s #JointAddress, and how we’re working in the People’s House to get things done for the American people. Posted by Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers on Tuesday, February 28, 2017 …And in this interview with the Daily Caller, the Congresswoman discusses how Republicans are, “unified [and] have a 200 day plan that’s been agreed to by the House and the Senate and the Administration, and it keeps us focused.” TheDCNF interview with Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers With less than 6 hours until Trump's address to Congress, GOP Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers is LIVE from the capitol with her thoughts. Stay tuned for interviews with Rep. Dave Brat and others before and after the speech! Posted by The Daily Caller on Tuesday, February 28, 2017 Just before the President’s Joint Address, the Congresswoman spoke to MSNBC’s Greta Van Susteren, where she previewed President Trump’s, “positive, unifying message” to the country. I just joined Greta Van Susteren on MSNBC to discuss tonight’s #JointAddress to Congress from President Donald J. Trump. I’m confident that we are going to see a positive, unifying speech to help unite our country on our shared values. Posted by Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers on Tuesday, February 28, 2017 Followed by an interview with CNN’s Erin Burnett, where the Congresswoman reiterated Republicans’ commitment to repeal and replace the failed Obamacare law with a 21st Century, people-first health care system: Here, I tell Erin Burnett OutFront that we can and must do better than Obamacare, and Republicans are on track with our plan to rescue Americans from this failing law. After talking about this with Erin, I was especially glad to hear President Donald J. Trump say in his speech last night that he’ll work with us to ensure people with pre-existing conditions have access to health care. Posted by Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers on Wednesday, March 1, 2017 Of course, a meeting with President Trump wouldn’t be complete without a thumbs up! .@POTUS has arrived @uscapitol for #Jointsession – kicking off with photos of House /Senate leadership Inc @cathymcmorris pic.twitter.com/UwVbRKFelv — Sean Spicer (@PressSec) March 1, 2017 …And then there was this behind-the-scenes video to give everyone at home a sneak peek: Here’s a fun behind-the-scenes video from @POTUS‘ #JointAddress to Congress. pic.twitter.com/4iyetNFfIW — CathyMcMorrisRodgers (@cathymcmorris) March 1, 2017 Following the Joint Address, the Congresswoman released her official statement via a Facebook Live video: My official statement on President Donald J. Trump's Joint Address. Posted by Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers on Tuesday, February 28, 2017 Followed by a few post-Joint Address interviews in Statuary Hall, including one with KING 5 and an interview with the Spokesman-Review: As the Congresswoman said in her Facebook Live video, at the end of the day, this is about putting people back at the center of their government. This is about people, everyone, living their version of the American Dream.
03.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (March 1, 2017) — Today, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) joined Reps. Adam Smith (WA-09), Rick Larsen (WA-02), Dave Reichert (WA-08), Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-03), Denny Heck (WA-10), Derek Kilmer (WA-06), Suzan DelBene (WA-01), Dan Newhouse (WA-04) and Pramila Jayapal (WA-07) —the entire Washington House of Representatives Delegation —in writing a letter to the Department of Justice (DOJ) and the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) requesting information into disturbing threats targeting Jewish Community Centers. The letter states, “A clear message must be sent that hatred and bigotry have no place in America, and they will not be tolerated. We stand with the Jewish Community both here in Washington state and across the country following a disturbing number of threats against Jewish community centers in recent months. Our community will continue to remain one that values diversity, and promotes respect for people of all races and religions.” You can read the full letter here. NOTE: Last week, Rep. McMorris Rodgers released the following statements regarding the recent incidents of Anti-Semitism across the country: “Recent incidents of Anti-Semitism are unacceptable. The despicable threats against Jewish Community Centers and the vandalizing of a Jewish cemetery are contemptible and need to be taken seriously. “I was happy to see President Trump and Speaker Ryan also speak out against these terrible actions. Even in Washington state we have seen vandalism and violence against Jewish families and centers in the past. It is un-American and against the long tradition of religious tolerance and freedom that is a touchstone to our country’s deepest values. “George Washington wrote to the Newport, Rhode Island synagogue in 1790, “the Government of the United States gives to bigotry no sanction, to persecution no assistance.” That must be the consistent, unwavering bipartisan view of the federal government, today and always.” # # #
03.01.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (March 1, 2017) — Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today released the following statement supporting President Trump’s executive order rolling back the harmful Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule, which is hurting our rural communities in Eastern Washington and all across the country. “President Trump just took action to review the WOTUS rule – Waters of the USA. This is one of the most burdensome EPA rules of recent years. It basically proposed to regulate every mud puddle in America. I heard about it a lot in Eastern Washington. You think about the impact on rural communities on our cattlemen, on our farmers, on our ranchers. Last year I voted to repeal it. This year, president Trump is calling for a review. I’m hoping that he ultimately repeals it and we provide relief to people in Eastern Washington.” — Rep. McMorris Rodgers # # #
02.28.2017	CLICK HERE OR ABOVE FOR REP. MCMORRIS RODGERS’ STATEMENT ON PRESIDENT TRUMP’S JOINT ADDRESS WASHINGTON, D.C. (February 28, 2017) — Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) tonight released a LIVE video statement on her Facebook page, where she shares her support for President Donald J. Trump’s calls for unity and his bold vision for our country: “Tonight I am reminded that President Trump is a man of action. He’s about putting people first, and I am excited about this time in our nation’s history as we come together and reimagine government from top to bottom. We have an aggressive 200-day plan that’s focused on lifting the regulatory burden, repealing and replacing Obamacare, tax reform, and rebuilding our military. Congress is working every day, closely with the Administration, to put our plans into action. And we are hitting every benchmark along the way. At the end of the day, this is about putting people back at the center of their government. This is about people, everyone, living their version of the American Dream.”
02.22.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (February 22, 2017) — Today, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement on the recent incidents of Anti-Semitism across the country: “Recent incidents of Anti-Semitism are unacceptable. The despicable threats against Jewish Community Centers and the vandalizing of a Jewish cemetery are contemptible and need to be taken seriously. “I was happy to see President Trump and Speaker Ryan also speak out against these terrible actions. Even in Washington state we have seen vandalism and violence against Jewish families and centers in the past. It is un-American and against the long tradition of religious tolerance and freedom that is a touchstone to our country’s deepest values. “George Washington wrote to the Newport, Rhode Island synagogue in 1790, “the Government of the United States gives to bigotry no sanction, to persecution no assistance.” That must be the consistent, unwavering bipartisan view of the federal government, today and always.” # # #
02.21.2017	SPOKANE, WA (February 21, 2017) — Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) continued her productive week in Eastern Washington, holding and attending numerous tours and meetings in the community. Here are highlights from Rep. McMorris Rodgers’ day: This morning, the Congresswoman sat down with Dan Kleckner of KHQ for an in-depth interview covering Obamacare, immigration, President Trump, and veterans. She then joined Freda Gandy for a tour of the MLK Family Outreach Center in Spokane to see the great services they are providing to our community and to learn what she can do to support them. Next, she visited the Spokane HOPE School, which provides resources and technology to help children with hearing loss. Following the tours, the Congresswoman joined a local manufacturing facility to discuss issues facing manufacturing in America. In the afternoon, Rep. McMorris Rodgers held a meeting with local leaders to discuss the importance of having Durable Medical Equipment available for those who need them. She is planning to introduce legislation on DMEs later this year. She then had the honor of joining Spokane Police Officer Tim Schwering, who in January, risked his life to pull a woman out of her burning car. Rep. McMorris Rodgers visited with Officer Schwering and other officers and presented him with a Congressional Record honoring his courage and life-saving actions. Later in the afternoon, Rep. McMorris Rodgers joined Spokane NAACP President Phil Tyler and other members of the Spokane community in hosting a second “Peaceful Communities Roundtable” to continue having the courageous conversations needed to come together, unite on common values, and work to solve the issues facing our community. Tomorrow, Rep. McMorris Rodgers will be in the state capitol for her annual trip to meet with legislators from Eastern Washington, House and Senate leadership, Senate and House Republicans, and Health Care Committee leadership. She’ll be discussing a variety of issues, including health care at the state and national level and her support of legislation to protect individuals with pre-existing conditions. Media inquiries can be directed to Molly.Drenkard@mail.house.gov. # # #
02.20.2017	SPOKANE, WA (February 20, 2017) — Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) spent the day meeting with community leaders, advocates, and concerned citizens regarding issues facing our country and community. In the morning she began with an interview with KXLY radio to discuss health care and other issues, then joined Global Neighborhood and World Relief to learn about their efforts to help refugees in our community. Throughout the day, she held various meetings, including two Coffee with Cathy events centered on how we build a 21st Century health care system that works for all Americans. The Congresswoman is doing what she always does when she comes home to Eastern Washington: meeting with people and hearing from them how she can be a partner and advocate. Tomorrow, Rep. McMorris Rodgers will again be around the Spokane area meeting with local groups, leaders, and advocates about important issues facing our community.
02.18.2017	SPOKANE, WA (February 18, 2017) — Today, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) held and attended multiple events in the Walla Walla area to meet with those in the community and celebrate and honor our nation’s heroes. This morning Rep. McMorris Rodgers met with leaders from the Dayton General Hospital to discuss how we can best care for our veterans in the 21st Century. Following this meeting, the Congresswoman met with Brian and Jennifer Fullen and Brian Richard and presented them with a Congressional Record to honor their bravery for putting their lives on the line when fire broke out in their neighboring apartment. Read the Congressional Record here. Later in the morning, Rep. McMorris Rodgers visited Animal Clinic East in Walla Walla and joined the Fazzari family in dedicating a flagpole in honor of their son, Army 1st Lieutenant Mathew Fazzari, who in 2012 gave his life in Afghanistan while serving our country. The Congresswoman gave brief remarks and presented the Fazzari family with a flag flown over the United States Capitol Building in honor of Mat’s courageous service to our country. In the afternoon, Rep. McMorris Rodgers joined members of the community at the grand opening of the Walla Walla Veterans Home. The Congresswoman delivered remarks at the ceremony, which can be viewed here and below, and joined in celebrating the opening of this state-of-the-art veterans home. This home provides excellent care to our veterans in the Walla Walla community and will serve our nation’s heroes for years to come. The facility was a true community effort and is a victory for our veterans and for our community. Rep. McMorris Rodgers played a large role in getting the project off the ground, and is excited to see this project come full circle. She looks forward to seeing the benefit it brings to veterans in our community. Happy to be at the grand opening of the Walla Walla Veterans Home. Watch my remarks live! Posted by Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers on Saturday, February 18, 2017 Tomorrow, Sunday, February 19, Rep. McMorris Rodgers will attend a church service at Morningstar Baptist Church in Spokane. # # #
02.17.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (February, 17, 2017) — Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) joined Senators Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and Ron Wyden (D-OR), and Rep. Suzanne Bonamici (D-OR) in spearheading a bipartisan, bicameral letter to Mick Mulvaney, the new Director of the Office of Management and Budget, urging the inclusion of critical funding for the Secure Rural Schools and Self-Determination (SRS) program in the President’s budget for Fiscal Year 2018. “The Secure Rural Schools program is vital for our rural communities, like those in Northeastern Washington. While we work toward active forestry reforms to get our federal forests working again, we must still provide certainty for our counties. The SRS program helps in providing essential services, funding public education, and maintaining infrastructure. I’m proud to help lead this effort because thousands of students, educators, and people in our rural communities rely on this important program,” said McMorris Rodgers. Nearly 100 years ago, Congress passed legislation to specify that 25 percent of revenues from timber harvests on federal lands would be shared with affected counties. These funds went to public schools, roads, and other municipal needs. Unfortunately, over the past few decades, timber production has drastically fallen on federal lands. This has devastated the tax base and virtually eliminated revenue sharing for essential services. Reforms are needed to better take care of our forests and get people back to work. In the meantime, certainty needs to be provided to our counties by extending SRS. Currently, the uncertainty caused by the expiration of this program makes it nearly impossible for these counties to plan annual budgets or invest in public education or infrastructure. Note: The extension of Secure Rural Schools will provide funding for seven counties across the Fifth Congressional District, and 27 counties across Washington state. The Secure Rural Schools program was first enacted in 2000 to renew this commitment to timberlands, but has remained expired since September 30, 2015. Rep. McMorris Rodgers has been a champion of getting the nation’s forests back to work and advancing reforms to ensure federal forests are healthy and actively managed. Earlier this month, the Congresswoman hosted a roundtable discussion for the launch of the Congressional Working Forests Caucus on how the nation’s forests can create jobs and grow the economy, and how tax policy impacts timber production on federal forests. She believes that with long term investment, unique opportunities can be brought back to these rural communities that the Secure Rural Schools program aims to help. The final letter can be viewed here. # # #
02.08.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (February 8, 2017) — Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) sent a letter to Laura E. Joss, Pacific West Regional Director for the National Park Service, expressing her deep concerns regarding the closure of longstanding recreation services at the Kettle Falls Marina. The letter asks for clarification for how and why the decision for closure was reached and requests the extension of the current contract until the necessary assessments have concluded and local community leaders and County Commissioners have been consulted. “Outdoor recreation is part of life in Eastern Washington, and the Kettle Falls Marina has served our community for decades. I’m disappointed at this decision by the National Park Service as the closure will undoubtedly impact those in our region who visit and vacation at Lake Roosevelt,” said McMorris Rodgers. “It’s important that community leaders get answers to questions surrounding this closure and that the current contract is extended until all have had a say.” The National Park Service announced on Monday, February 6th that the Kettle Falls Marina would close as a result of the inability to find a suitable contractor to continue operations at the marina. The closure is set to begin on April 30th, 2017, at the end of the current contract with Lake Roosevelt Vacations, Inc. In a statement announcing the closure, the Park Superintendent Dan Foster stated, “The National Park Service will take a fresh look at public needs and wants with regard to services for the area.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers is asking for clarification and answers to the following questions: How many bids did the NPS receive to operate the Kettle Falls Marina? Why was a contractor ultimately not selected as a result of the solicitation? What specific studies does the NPS intend to develop to determine the future of the Kettle Falls Marina? What is the timeline for these studies? Why does the contract expire on April 30, 2017, if the National Park Service has not conducted the necessary studies to make a definitive determination on the future success of services? You can view the final letter here.
02.03.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (February 3rd, 2017)– Reps. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Dan Newhouse (R-WA), and Jim Costa (D-CA) introduced H.R. 848, the Farm Regulatory Certainty Act. H.R. 848 reaffirms and clarifies Congress’ intent regarding the inappropriateness of subjecting agricultural operation nutrient management activities under the Resources Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976 (RCRA). It also codifies the Environmental Protection Agency’s regulations regarding the treatment of agricultural operation nutrients under RCRA. Finally, the legislation will offer increased protection for individuals diligently seeking to treat identified issues, and prevent farmers from being targeted twice if they are already engaged in legal action or are making a diligent attempt to work with the state or federal government to address issues. Rep. McMorris Rodgers: “The Farm Regulatory Certainty Act will help provide much-needed legal clarity and certainty for our farmers and for the state and federal agencies who enforce these regulations. I’m committed to creating a collaborative culture, where our farmers can, in good faith, work with state and federal agencies to comply with regulations and reduce their environmental footprint.” Rep. Newhouse: “One of the fundamental principles of our free system of government is for the law to be clear, comprehensible, and knowable. Otherwise, it would be impossible to comply with ever-changing government regulations that do not follow the intent of a statute written by Congress. As a farmer, I know that the agriculture community works to comply with necessary regulations that preserve our environment, but rules that are redefined after the fact only create uncertainty and liability where there should be a bright line. I am introducing this legislation to provide needed clarity and reaffirm the intention of Congress when applying rules for nutrient management practices.” Rep. Costa: “This legislation would reduce unfair regulatory burdens on farmers, ranchers, and dairymen who were never supposed to be subject to nutrient management regulations under the Resources Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA). Now more than ever, due to changing weather patterns and a constantly fluctuating marketplace, farmers are dealing with unpredictable circumstances, and the Farm Regulatory Certainty Act would reign in overly aggressive regulatory efforts and re-establish the Congressional intent of RCRA. American farmers, ranchers, and dairymen are some of the strongest environmental stewards, and this legislation will ease their concerns of frivolous lawsuits so their operations can thrive.” Rep. Newhouse, Rep. Costa, and Rep. McMorris Rodgers were joined by original cosponsors Rep. Ralph Abraham (R-LA), Rep. Sanford Bishop (D-GA), Rep. Michael Conaway (R-TX), Rep. Chris Collins (R-NY), Rep. Kevin Cramer (R-ND), Rep. Henry Cuellar, Ph.D. (D-TX), Rep. Jeff Denham (R-CA), Rep. Bob Gibbs (R-OH), Rep. Ron Kind (D-WI), Rep. Steve King (R-IA), Rep. Billy Long (R-MO), Rep. Blaine Luetkemeyer (R-MO), Rep. Devin Nunes (R-CA), Rep. Tom O’Halleran (D-AZ), Rep. Collin C. Peterson (D-MN), Rep. Robert Pittenger (R-NC), Rep. David Rouzer (R-NC), Rep. Kurt Schrader (D-OR), Rep. David Scott (D-GA), Rep. Mike Simpson (R-ID), Rep. Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ), Rep. Elise Stefanik (R-NY), Rep. Glenn ‘GT’ Thompson (R-PA), Rep. David G. Valadao (R-CA), Rep. Filemon Vela (D-TX), Rep. Ann Wagner (R-MO), and Rep. Ted S. Yoho, DVM (R-FL). The Farm Regulatory Certainty Act would: Reaffirm and clarify congressional intent regarding the inappropriateness of subjecting agricultural nutrients to RCRA. Codify the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) regulations regarding the treatment of agricultural nutrients under RCRA. Prevent farmers who are already engaged in legal action or are making a diligent attempt to work with the state or federal government to address nutrient management issues from being targeted by citizen suits. The Farm Regulatory Certainty Act would not: Prevent the EPA from enforcing current regulations under the Safe Water Drinking Act, the Clean Water Act, or any other applicable law. Exempt livestock producers from any laws or regulations intended to govern agricultural operations. Background: In early 2015, a federal judge in Washington State erroneously ruled against several dairy farmers that nitrates found in groundwater – commonly a byproduct of manure and fertilizers – were a “solid waste” under the Resources Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), and that high water nitrate levels constituted “open dumping”. While farmers are subject to numerous water statutes, this misguided judicial decision unfortunately neglects the fact that RCRA – a law intended to govern safe disposal of solid wastes in sanitary landfills – was never intended to regulate agricultural operation nutrient management activities. In fact, the Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) original 1979 RCRA regulations include exceptions for agricultural byproducts returned to the soil as nutrients. This decision places our entire agricultural community in a gray area of legal uncertainty. Farmers are now uncertain which statutes govern their nutrient management activities, and are open to increased liability from RCRA citizen suits based on undefined standards. Moreover, in the Washington State case, the farmers being sued under RCRA were working with EPA to address nutrient management issues prior to the citizen suit being filed. This inappropriate application of RCRA puts farmers on the defensive, and discourages proactive, voluntary stewardship of their land and water. For the complete text of the legislation, click here. # # #
02.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (February 2, 2017) –This week Representatives Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) and Tony Cárdenas (CA-29) introduced the Common Sense Nutrition Disclosure Act of 2017 (H.R. 772) in the House, and Senators Roy Blunt (R-MO) and Angus King (I-ME) introduced a companion bill (S. 261) in the Senate. Upon the introduction of the legislation, the members released the following statements: Said Representative McMorris Rodgers: “Whether you buy food at the local convenience store or eat out at the neighborhood diner, you should have access to important nutritional information. The FDA’s one-size-fits-all approach places additional burdens on the backs of our nation’s small business owners without giving them the flexibility they need to actually comply with the regulations. How businesses provide that information should be consistent with how their customers actually place orders – including by phone, online or through mobile apps. By bringing this rule into the 21st Century, we can provide relief to our job creators and preserve important nutritional information for American families at the same time.” Said Representative Cárdenas: “Access to nutrition information is essential for a healthy life. Americans deserve to know this information to help them make healthy choices about what they eat. That being said, as a former small business owner, I understand it can be difficult to comply with burdensome and confusing federal regulations. This bill is a win-win – it clarifies complex FDA regulations and gives small businesses the flexibility they need to provide their customers with this information. I’m proud to introduce this common-sense measure that addresses both the needs of small businesses and consumers.” Said Senator Blunt: “We need some common sense relief to the FDA’s menu labeling requirements so that it is reasonable and achievable for local convenience stores, grocery stores, restaurants, and others that sell food. Small businesses are already having to spend money trying to comply with difficult and unworkable regulations. I am pleased to work with Chair McMorris Rodgers and introduce the companion bill in the Senate. Our bill recognizes the importance of menu labeling, but more importantly recognizes that there needs to be flexibility for businesses so they can provide important nutritional information to customers in the most useful way.” Said Senator King: “Regulations play an important role in keeping people safe, but we have to ensure they are smart, targeted, and effective. Otherwise, they will only stifle economic growth. This bipartisan, bicameral bill is a scale-appropriate approach to menu labeling regulations that will provide consumers with the information they need without unnecessarily burdening food providers, like Maine grocers.” BACKGROUND: The Common Sense Nutrition Disclosure Act, which passed the House in the 114th Congress by a strong bipartisan vote of 266-144, ensures that consumers continue to have access to important nutritional information, while also providing flexibility for businesses to use and leverage 21st Century technology to display the information. The act does not diminish the amount of nutritional information that must be provided by restaurants and retailers and instead clarifies the unworkable and overly complex regulations the Food and Drug Administration finalized in November 2014. Immediate enactment of the Common Sense Nutrition Disclosure Act reconciles the FDA’s one-size-fits-all regulation ahead of its full compliance date of May 5, 2017 – a mere three months away. A failure to fix the regulation will force America’s business owners to begin preparation for compliance – if they have not been forced to do so already – to avoid excessive civil and criminal penalties. That compliance comes at a high cost, especially for small business owners. It’s estimated that this regulation will cost nearly $1 billion – and that’s just for grocers. Coupled with the predicted 14.5 million hours of paperwork, this is one of the most expensive and onerous regulations of the Obama administration. # # #
02.02.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (February 2, 2017) — Yesterday, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) joined fellow Members of Congress in writing a letter to Kathleen McGettigan, Acting Director of the U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM), urging the exemption of the Forest Service’s hiring of seasonal firefighters from the federal hiring freeze. “Growing up in Northeastern Washington, I’ve seen the devastation that catastrophic wildfires can cause to a community. For those of us who live in areas prone to wildfires, it’s so important that the Forest Service has all the resources possible to keep our forests healthy and our communities safe,” said McMorris Rodgers. “I am so thankful to those who work and volunteer to help fight fires here in Washington and urge the Office of Personnel Management to respect the important safety needs of our community by exempting seasonal firefighters from this hiring freeze.” Note: Over the past several years, Rep. McMorris Rodgers has met with local fire leaders, tribes, firefighters and officials to work to solve the issues facing the Forest Service and our region regarding wildfires. After hearing from those in Eastern Washington, Rep. McMorris Rodgers introduced the FORESTS Act to propose common-sense reforms to better manage our forests, incentivize local collaboration and decision-making, reduce the risk of catastrophic wildfire, and provide economic opportunities for rural communities. Most of this legislation was included in the House-passed Resilient Federal Forests Act of 2015 (H.R. 2647). Rep. McMorris Rodgers also co-sponsored the Wildfire Disaster Fund (H.R. 167) to help address the issue of the Forest Service borrowing funds from forest management and other accounts to fight wildfires, a practice known as “fire-borrowing.” Instead, this legislation would classify the worst fires as “disasters,” thus allowing firefighting efforts to be paid for outside of the Forest Service’s budget. The Congresswoman believes that at the end of the day, much more needs to be done, and she is seeking locally driven solutions — from people who know our forests best — to develop strategic partnerships than can provide better stewardship of our forests. She supports efforts like the local A to Z project, a public-private partnership to expand maintenance and treatment of the Colville National Forest and to increase local economic output through privately funded projects. On January 23rd, President Trump signed a memorandum freezing the hiring of federal civilian employees in the executive branch. The memorandum provides that the heads of departments and agencies “may exempt from the hiring freeze any positions that it deems necessary to meet national security or public safety responsibilities.” It also states that the Director of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) may also “grant exemptions from this freeze where those exemptions are otherwise necessary.” The full text of the letter is below: February 1, 2017 Kathleen McGettigan Acting Director U.S. Office of Personnel Management 1900 E. Street NW Washington, DC 20415 Dear Acting Director McGettigan: We write regarding the Administration’s recent decision to impose an across-the-board hiring freeze of federal workers. As Members of Congress who represent states impacted annually by wildfires, we are concerned this hiring freeze prohibits the U.S. Forest Service from hiring seasonal firefighters and other professionals in anticipation of wildfire season. Upon taking office, the President signed a memorandum freezing hiring of federal civilian employees in the executive branch, with a stated exception of the military. On January 25, 2017, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) issued guidance directing agencies to hire workers offered a job on or before January 22nd and have documentation showing a start date of February 22nd or earlier. Agencies may revoke other existing job offers at their discretion. The OMB guidance gives OPM the authority to grant limited exceptions for national security or public safety. According to the National Federation of Federal Employees, the Forest Service hired at least 6,200 seasonal workers for firefighting or firefighting-related duties in 2015. These seasonal firefighters supplement state and local firefighters to prepare for wildfire season and contain wildfires as they emerge. In order to ensure they are trained and ready for wildfire season, the Forest Service’s hiring process traditionally begins over the next several weeks with a series of job fairs in wildfire-prone states. We are concerned that this process will be interrupted, delayed, or prohibited by the Administration’s hiring freeze. We recognize that additional guidance on this matter is forthcoming. If OPM determines that an exception to the Administration’s hiring freeze is necessary for the Forest Service to hire seasonal firefighters, we respectfully urge you to grant one for public safety purposes. Sufficient staffing at the Forest Service help keep our families, homes, and businesses safe from wildfires. Should you have questions or need additional information, please contact Michael Wong with Congresswoman Sinema’s office at Michael.Wong@mail.house.gov. Thank you in advance for your consideration and your attention to this request. Sincerely, Reps. Kyrsten Sinema (D-AZ), Scott Tipton (R-CO), Derek Kilmer (D-WA), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Trent Franks (R-AZ), Tom O’Halleran (D-AZ), Andy Biggs (R-AZ), Scott Peters (D-CA), and Dan Newhouse (R-WA). ###
01.24.2017	Washington, D.C. (January 24, 2017) – Today, members of the Washington State Congressional Republican delegation, Reps. Dave Reichert, Cathy McMorris Rodgers, Dan Newhouse, and Jaime Herrera Beutler, sent a letter to Washington Governor Jay Inslee and Insurance Commissioner Mike Kreidler outlining their priorities for healthcare reform and concerns about Obamacare’s impact on Washington residents. This letter served as a response to a letter Governor Inslee sent the congressional leaders regarding healthcare coverage in Washington. We firmly believe that everyone, including individuals with pre-existing conditions, should have access to health care coverage. That coverage should protect the sanctity of the patient-doctor relationship; provide choice because one-size does not fit all; and most importantly be affordable. While Americans that were previously uninsured may now have health care coverage, it means nothing if they cannot afford to use it – and the numbers show that today’s health insurance is woefully unaffordable. Individuals and their families deserve health care reform that is done thoughtfully and responsibly with a smooth transition, and no one should have the rug pulled out from underneath them. Therefore, as we repeal the ACA we are also diligently working with local stakeholders, health care experts, Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle, and the Administration to enact long-term, 21st century solutions that give people access to affordable, quality health care coverage focused on personalized, patient-centered care. It’s time to put Americans back in control of their health care decisions. Read the full contents of the letters below and download here and here. Dear Governor Inslee: Thank you for your letter regarding the Affordable Care Act (ACA). We appreciate your attention to this important issue impacting Washingtonians and Americans across the country. Like you, we firmly believe that everyone, including individuals with pre-existing conditions, should have access to health care coverage. That coverage should protect the sanctity of the patient-doctor relationship; provide choice because one-size does not fit all; and most importantly be affordable. While Americans that were previously uninsured may now have health care coverage, it means nothing if they cannot afford to use it – and the numbers show that today’s health insurance is woefully unaffordable. Premiums are skyrocketing across the country with double digit increases. In Washington, premiums rose as high as 24.7 percent with an average increase of 13.6 percent for 2017. Deductibles are on the same trajectory with record increases especially in our state. This year, the number of plans with deductibles at or over $6,000 more than tripled from 8 plans in 2016 to 28 plans. These rising costs are also not isolated to the individual marketplace. Employer-based family plans now cost on average $18,000 per year, which is $4,400 more than the average cost before the ACA was signed into law. Exacerbating the high out-of-pocket costs is the continued, steady departure of insurance companies from the marketplace. For 2016, 143 plans were offered in Washington’s exchange by 12 insurers. Now in 2017, only nine insurers are offering 98 plans. In a third of our counties across the nation, Americans will only have one option for health care coverage in the exchanges, including residents of Klickitat and San Juan Counties in Washington — and that’s not a choice at all. We would also like to point out that the ACA forced 80 percent of newly insured Washingtonians into Medicaid – a safety net program that has been plagued by severe access problems, poor quality of care, and unsustainable funding. A study by researchers at Harvard University recently found that not only did Medicaid spending increase by $1,100 per person in Oregon, but beneficiaries of the state’s Medicaid program had no better clinically-measured health outcomes than individuals who had no insurance at all. Again, while adding more individuals to Medicaid may boost coverage numbers, it does not mean greater access to care for individuals and their families. We must not allow the ACA to jeopardize Medicaid’s viability for the vulnerable populations it was meant to serve – the poor, elderly, disabled, and children. Even though the law has undergone 70 significant changes to date – 24 of which were solutions offered and passed in Congress, and signed into law by the president – 8 out of 10 Americans still want the law repealed in its entirety or significantly changed. Which is why we are taking immediate action to provide relief to the American people from the ACA’s many failures. Individuals and their families deserve health care reform that is done thoughtfully and responsibly with a smooth transition, and no one should have the rug pulled out from underneath them. Therefore, as we repeal the ACA we are also diligently working with local stakeholders, health care experts, Members of Congress on both sides of the aisle, and the Administration to enact long-term, 21st century solutions that give people access to affordable, quality health care coverage focused on personalized, patient-centered care. It’s time to put Americans back in control of their health care decisions. Again, thank you for your comments. As we work on behalf of our constituents to ensure America’s health care system works for everyone, we encourage your continued thoughts and collaboration. # # #
01.20.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (January 20, 2017) – U.S. Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement after President Donald J. Trump was sworn into office. “It’s an exciting time in our nation’s capital. An Inauguration is a time of new beginnings. It brings with it hope of a better tomorrow for everyone in this country. We cherish the peaceful transfer of power. Today means a fresh start and an opportunity to make a meaningful impact on people’s lives. We have new leadership and a unified Republican government. This moment is a call from the American people — it’s time to be legendary, to think big, and to reimagine government. It’s time to put the voice of every man, woman, and child in this country back where it belongs: at the core of our representative government. “I look forward to working with President Trump and Vice President Pence to offer relief to workers and families across this country. This is the positive disruption Americans have been waiting for, and now we’re ready to make America great again.” # # #
01.17.2017	Washington, D.C. (January 17, 2017)–Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers today announced that Walla Walla native Ian Field will serve in her Congressional office as Chief of Staff. “With this new year comes a renewed commitment to deliver excellent customer service to people and families all across Eastern Washington, and I’m excited to see what the future has in store as we think big and challenge the ‘status quo’ in Washington, D.C.,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Ian has a deep understanding of the issues facing our area — there isn’t a corner of the district that he doesn’t intimately know thanks to his many years serving on the ground throughout the Fifth Congressional District. Ian is uniquely qualified to lead my team as we continue to listen to people in our area and advocate on their behalf.” A Walla Walla native, Ian previously held a variety of roles in the Congresswoman’s Congressional office based in Spokane and Washington, D.C., where he focused on constituent outreach and communications. During his time with McMorris Rodgers, Field has worked on important Eastern Washington priorities, including advocating for the completion of the North-South Freeway, improving forest health to prevent fires, reforming the VA to bring better care to veterans, and advancing hydropower. Field is a Walla Walla Valley Academy graduate and alumnus of Walla Walla University. Other key staff announcements include: Andrew Engell of Colville, Washington, recently joined the Congresswoman’s team as the Northern Regional Representative, where he is dedicated to ensuring residents in Stevens, Pend Oreille, Ferry, and Lincoln counties have direct access to the many services provided by the Congresswoman and her team. Engell joined the Congresswoman’s staff in December 2016. Jessie Laughery of Clarkston, Washington, will assume a newly-created role, Manager of Constituent and Community Relations, where she will ensure residents continue to have a wide variety of opportunities to engage in a dialogue with their U.S. Representative. This includes ensuring a “people-first” standard of excellence within the office’s many services offered to the people of Eastern Washington. Laughery has served on the Congresswoman’s team since 2015. # # #
01.13.2017	Washington, D.C. – Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed a budget resolution to provide for reconciliation, the first procedural steps towards repealing Obamacare. “Obamacare was the federal government’s best effort to ‘fix’ our health care system, and it failed. This week we’re fulfilling our promise to the American people and taking the first steps towards repealing Obamacare. We want to offer relief from the current health care system that is plagued by higher premiums and fewer choices, and puts unelected bureaucrats in between patients and their doctors. But let me be clear: No one who has coverage because of Obamacare today, will lose that coverage the day it’s repealed — we’re committed to a smooth and stable transition for those currently receiving care. Every American deserves a personalized, patient-centered health care system that is affordable, stable, and secure — health care that treats you like a human being, not a number. And that’s what we’re offering: a 21st Century health care system that puts patients back in the driver’s seat.” NOTE: Earlier today, House Republicans took to the House Floor and highlighted Obamacare’s top three failures: premiums have gone up — not down; instead of lowered costs, health care prices went up; people have fewer choices than ever before. ###
01.12.2017	WASHINGTON, D.C. (January 12, 2017) — U.S. Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today released the following statement in response to the announcement by the United States Air Force that the next round of KC-46A Pegasus Aerial Refueling Tankers will not be coming to Eastern Washington’s Fairchild Air Force Base: “I am disappointed that Fairchild was not selected to receive these new tankers, and I continue to have questions about whether changes to the basing process unfairly disadvantaged Fairchild,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “I’ve met personally with numerous Air Force leaders and they have assured me that Fairchild is positioned to be a preeminent aerial refueling tanker base well into the future because of its strategic location, infrastructure and capacity, strong community support, and years of mission experience. I am going to hold them to their word and ensure that Fairchild retains and expands its critical role in assuring the Air Force’s global mobility and reach. I remain confident and excited about Fairchild’s future and will continue to work with our community partners and the entire Washington congressional delegation to expand Fairchild’s missions, operations, and strategic importance for decades to come.” Note: Representative McMorris Rodgers has championed Fairchild and its personnel both in Congress and with the Air Force during her tenure in Congress. In April of 2016, she hosted Greater Spokane Incorporated in Washington, D.C. for meetings with senior Air Force officials at the Pentagon. In July, Rep. McMorris Rodgers spearheaded a Washington congressional delegation letter to the Secretary of the Air Force supporting the selection of Fairchild as the main location for the new round of KC46A refueling tankers (letter can be found here and below). # # #
01.05.2017	Washington, D.C. (January 5, 2017) – Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed H.R.Res.11, which calls for repeal of United Nations Security Council Resolution 2334 and makes clear the Obama administration’s failure to veto this resolution violated longstanding U.S. policy to protect Israel from such one-sided resolutions. McMorris Rodgers previously denounced the administration’s decision. “11 minutes after Israel declared her independence, the United States announced our support for the new nation. Since the days of President Truman, our commitment to our ally has been unbreakable – until now. President Obama’s decision not to veto the UN’s biased, one-sided resolution is an affront to a nation who has long been our trusted friend and ally. To echo Speaker Ryan earlier today, this was not about settlements, and it wasn’t about peace – it was about Israel’s right to exist. I’m grateful to stand with my Republican and Democrat colleagues to cry foul, and condemn the UN’s anti-Israel actions.” # # #
12.28.2016	SPOKANE, WASHINGTON (December 28, 2016) — Upon the Obama administration’s failure to veto the United Nations Security Council resolution that condemned Israeli settlement construction, Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) issued the following statement: “The Obama Administration’s failure to veto last week’s United Nations’ vote censuring Israel is a low point in the sixty-eight year history of diplomatic relations between the United States and Israel,” said Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05). “Fortunately, a new administration and bipartisan Congress will begin to rebuild trust and cooperation with Israel, and begin anew on the road to a just and lasting peace in the Middle East.”
12.16.2016	Washington, D.C. (December 16, 2016)– Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), issued the below statement after the President signed into law the Faster Care for Veterans Act. “Today is a victory for our veterans and a big step toward bringing the VA into the 21st Century and back to being focused on its sole mission – serving veterans,” said Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05). “I’m grateful for my colleagues’ support of this legislation, and I look forward to seeing the very real impact it will have on giving our veterans easier access to the care they’ve earned.” NOTE: Rep. McMorris Rodgers recently spoke at a House Republican Leadership press conference about the Faster Care for Veterans Act. Click here to view her remarks, and click here to watch her speech on the House floor. Earlier this year, she penned a Washington Post op-ed outlining her vision for a modern VA system.
12.10.2016	Washington, D.C. (December 10, 2016)— Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), issued the below statement after the Senate passed the Faster Care for Veterans Act. The bill, which requires the VA to adopt technology that allows veterans to schedule VA appointments online, passed the House early last week and now heads to the President’s desk and awaits his signature to become law. “The best way to show our gratitude to our veterans is to provide them with the care they’ve earned,” said Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05). “The Faster Care for Veterans Act lets our veterans schedule appointments online, which is a tool the VA should have adopted a long time ago. The VA has lost sight of its mission to put our veterans first, and I’m glad to see the Senate agree with reforms that bring the VA into the 21st Century. I thank Congressman Moulton and Senators Klobuchar and Ernst for partnering together on this bipartisan bill and look forward to seeing it signed into law.” NOTE: On Tuesday, Rep. McMorris Rodgers spoke at a House Republican Leadership press conference about the Faster Care for Veterans Act. Click here to view her remarks, and click here to watch her speech on the House floor. Earlier this year, she penned a Washington Post op-ed outlining her vision for a modern VA system.
09.16.2016	Washington, D.C. (Sept. 16, 2016)–Rep. McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) sent a letter today to Ron Johnson, Director of the Mann-Grandstaff VA Medical Facility in Spokane, regarding the recent decision by the center to terminate the ability of veterans to access physical therapy services through the Minimally Supervised Group (MSG). The full text of the letter can be found here and below. September 16, 2016 Mr. Ron Johnson Director, Mann-Grandstaff VA Medical Center 4815 North Assembly Street Spokane, Washington 99205 Mr. Johnson, I am writing to share my ongoing concerns about the decision by the Spokane VA Medical Center to terminate the ability of veterans to access physical therapy services through the Minimally Supervised Group (MSG). In August, I learned that veterans participating in the MSG were informed that the program was being terminated with very little notice. This short notice caused many of these veterans to experience a great deal of stress and anxiety. The veterans in the program, who were using the physical therapy equipment without direct supervision from a therapist, were able to maintain a healthy lifestyle, meet their physical therapy and mobility goals, and improve their overall health as a result of regular exercise. My staff met with several of these veterans shortly after they received this notification, and as you know, my office helped facilitate a meeting with you to discuss the situation and determine whether a compromise could be reached to allow their continued participation in the program. I appreciate your willingness to meet with this group for that purpose. Prior to this meeting, I expressed my concerns about the short notice the veterans received and the impact it would have on their physical and mental well-being. As a result of our conversation, I had some reassurance from you that there could be a compromise reached that would allow for the veterans to continue the use of the facility equipment. Unfortunately, the meeting did not yield a mutually acceptable agreement in that regard. After the meeting, members of the veterans’ group informed me they were not offered a compromise to be allowed to continue their activities. Moreover, they also informed me that they were told “they were not patients,” which they interpreted as disrespectful and not “being welcome at their VA.” A recent response from the Medical Center to an inquiry from my office on behalf of an affected veteran claims that “significant growth over the last few years” is the reason for terminating this program. The letter further stated that, since “2014 there has been an increase in staff from 12 to 19 employees which has increased the demand for services.” The letter additionally directs the veteran to access the Vet Center programs or go to a community-based gym. In addition, the letter notes that 19.4 percent of veterans are unable to get appointments within 30 days of the “clinically indicated date” due to increased demand. The letter also directed veterans to contact the Vet Center for alternatives. However, after doing so, the veteran was told there are no “groups available” that will provide the physical exercise they need. In addition, most of the veterans in the MSG group tell me they do not have the necessary resources to purchase memberships at local health clubs. They have also told me the reason they use the VA is that most of them share the camaraderie of their service and feel safer when around other veterans. I would like to know whether the inability of veterans to obtain appointments in a timely manner is due to the use of the equipment by the MSG group or the non-availability of staff to meet with the new veterans. I ask because veterans have told me that on most occasions when they were using the equipment “they were the only ones in the exercise room.” In that regard, would you provide me a breakdown on utilization of the equipment, by hour and day? In addition, I would like to know how many veterans are assigned to each physical therapist at the hospital and what percentage of their time is spent on the exercise equipment. Further, could you provide information documenting how many of those visits are no shows or cancellations, either on the part of the clinic or by the veteran? I firmly believe there is and should be a mutually-agreeable way forward that will allow veterans participating in the MSG group to continue doing so in a manner that does not impact the ability of those under the care of VA physicians to utilize physical therapy equipment in a timely manner. For instance, could veterans in the MSG group enter into a Memorandum of Understanding with the Medical Center that would govern the terms and conditions under which the MSG could continue? We need to find a solution to this issue and solve this problem as soon as possible. I would like to continue this conversation and meet with you personally about the situation at your earliest convenience. I look forward to discussing this matter soon. Sincerely, Cathy McMorris Rodgers Member of Congress
09.15.2016	Washington, D.C. (Sept. 15, 2016) – House Republican Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House yesterday passed the Regulatory Integrity Act of 2016 (H.R. 5226). The bill provides greater transparency to the federal government’s rulemaking process in response to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)’s propaganda during the crafting of Waters of the United States (WOTUS). “The EPA has a record of using taxpayer dollars to lobby for their policy agenda and then attempting to block the American people from knowing about it,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Their actions are inexcusable. Their effort to deliberately target hardworking Washington farmers in their What’s Upstream campaign last year was especially egregious. It’s time they were reined in.” “With the Regulatory Integrity Act, the EPA and other agencies will be required to post all public comments during the proposed rule stage in a central location, such as online. That means the American people will have increased access to fair, accurate information about the rules that directly impact their daily lives, and be protected from propaganda efforts by unaccountable bureaucrats who clearly haven’t spent a day on a farm.”
09.14.2016	Washington, D.C. (Sept. 14, 2016) – House Republican Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed theVA Accountability First and Appeals Modernization Act (H.R. 5620). The bill strengthens whistleblower protections, reforms the Department’s disability benefits appeals process, and provides additional authority to the Secretary to reprimand employees for performance or misconduct. “Many of the veterans I spoke with recently at town halls around Eastern Washington told me ‘heads should roll’ at the VA,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “I agree that it should not be hard to fire VA employees who break the rules or do a terrible job. I am proud to say the People’s House today passed the VA Accountability First and Appeals Modernization Act (H.R. 5620), which strengthens whistleblower protections, reforms the Department’s disability benefits appeals process, and provides additional authority to the Secretary to reprimand employees for performance or misconduct. To our veterans, their families, and concerned Americans across this country, these reforms are common sense and long overdue.”
09.09.2016	Spokane, Washington (September 9, 2016) — Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today announced staff-led mobile office hours, which will be held across Eastern Washington throughout September. Rep. McMorris Rodgers has offices located in Colville, Spokane, and Walla Walla, and mobile office hours offer people living outside of those areas a chance to connect with the Congresswoman’s staff without having to travel to those three cities. The mobile office times, dates and locations are: Wednesday, Sept. 14 Newport: Pend Oreille County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers, 625 W 4th St, 10:00 AM – 11:30 AM Davenport: Lincoln County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers, 450 Logan St, 1:30 PM – 3:00 PM Thursday, Sept.15 Dayton: Port of Columbia Office, Conference Room, 1 Port Way, 10:00 AM – 11:30 AM Pomeroy: Garfield County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers, 789 Main St, 1:00 PM – 2:30 PM Wednesday, Sept. 21* Colville: Veterans Services Office Hours 555 South Main Street, 9:00 AM – 1:00 PM *Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers’ Veterans Services staff member, John Davis, will be assisting veterans in the Colville Office. This date is subject to change. Those who need assistance with a federal agency or would like to voice an opinion on federal issues are encouraged to come by—no appointment necessary. Staff members will be ready and available to discuss resolving issues with federal agencies and federal government resources. All are still welcome to contact the three main offices in Eastern Washington: Colville office: 555 South Main Street, Colville, WA 99114, Phone: 509-684-3481 Spokane office: 10 North Post Street, Suite 625, Spokane, WA 99201, Phone: 509-353-2374 Walla Walla office: 26 E. Main Street, Suite 2, Walla Walla, WA 99362, Phone: 509-529-9358 # # #
09.01.2016	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Molly Drenkard Press Secretary, Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) Molly.Drenkard@mail.house.gov Spokane, Washington (September 1, 2016) –Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today appeared on Good Morning Northwest to present State Representative Kevin Parker (R-Spokane) and Alene Alexander, the co-founder and executive director of Embrace Eastern Washington, respectively, with the Angels in Adoption Award. Embrace Eastern Washington is a nonprofit organization that promotes awareness of the needs of foster families and local foster care systems in Washington and addresses the shortage of licensed foster care homes in the state. “Every American should have the opportunity to seek his or her unique version of the American Dream, and that starts with the solid foundation of family,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “I’m grateful for the work Rep. Parker, Alene, and the team at Embrace Eastern Washington are doing to protect, advocate for, and empower our community’s vulnerable youth. There are no unwanted children, just unfound families, and their work is making a real difference in opening hearts and minds across Eastern Washington.” “Embrace Eastern Washington believes that when foster parents feel valued, social workers feel blessed, and all children feel wanted, a long-term impact will be made on the foster care system in Eastern Washington,” said Alene Alexander, executive director of Embrace Eastern Washington. The Angels in Adoption program is the signature awareness program of the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute. The program works to honor the work of individuals in communities across the country who work to enrich the lives of our nation’s orphans and foster youth. On September 21, the Congressional Coalition will host its annual Angels in Adoption awards gala, at which Embrace Eastern Washington will be recognized. ###
08.29.2016	Media Advisory Contact: Molly Drenkard Press Secretary, Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) Molly.Drenkard@mail.house.gov Spokane, Washington (August 29, 2016) – Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) will be in Pomeroy and Walla Walla Sept. 2-3 for meetings with local community members. She will also attend Walla Walla Frontier Days for its 150th anniversary celebration. On March 21, 2016, Rep. McMorris Rodgers commemorated the fair’s 150th anniversary by reading a tribute to it into the Congressional Record, which she later presented to fair board members, Walla Walla County commissioners, Frontier Days royalty and the manager of the fairgrounds. Media and the public are invited to attend the events listed below. Schedule of events: Friday, Sept. 2: Event: “Conversation with Cathy” town hall Time: 11:00 AM – 12:00 PM Location: Pioneer Plaza, 730 Main Street, Pomeroy, WA 99347 Event: Walla Walla Frontier Days Time: 5:00 PM – 7:30 PM Location: Walla Walla County Fairgrounds, 363 Orchard St, Walla Walla, WA 99362 Saturday, Sept. 3: Event: Walla Walla VFW Cowboy Breakfast Time: 8:35 AM – 9:15 AM Location: VFW Post 992, 102 N. Colville, Walla Walla, WA 99362 ###
07.14.2016	Today Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and Congressman Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) introduced the Transition to Independence Act, joined by a bipartisan group of colleagues. The legislation will help states move people with disabilities out of segregated work settings and into competitive, integrated employment. “In America, you are not defined by where you come from,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Despite this, real and perceived barriers are limiting men and women with disabilities from pursuing their unique version of the American Dreams, including being independent, having a job, and being seen as a contributing member of society. As we enter this 21st Century battleground, our legislation will help individuals see the ability, not the disability, and empower those with disabilities to seek meaningful and competitive employment opportunities.” “Employment isn’t just a way to earn a living; it is often a vital component of feeling independent, productive, and happy,” said Van Hollen. “Every person deserves the opportunity to participate in competitive employment, but people with disabilities still face segregated work environments that too often pay low wages and lack the integration that helps workers build skills and advance their careers. This legislation will help level the playing field for workers with disabilities and make sure every American has the chance to get ahead and reach their full potential.” Original co-sponsors of the legislation include Representatives Pete Sessions (R-TX), Jim Langevin (D-RI), Ander Crenshaw (R-FL), Bill Foster (D-IL), and Don Beyer (D-VA). The Transition to Independence Act would provide bonuses to states that move people with disabilities out of segregated settings and into competitive employment and/or integrated day habilitation services. States would also be rewarded for no longer giving money to segregated or subminimum wage work programs, for taking steps to develop the state’s workforce of people with disabilities, and for stopping new placements of people with disabilities in segregated employment settings. Ari Ne’eman, President of the Autistic Self Advocacy Network, said, “The Transition to Independence Act represents a serious step forward in welcoming and including people with disabilities into the workforce. By making targeted investments in select states that expand integrated employment and integrated meaningful day services, this legislation will help to dramatically improve federal policy with respect to workers with disabilities.” Ne’eman continued, “The Autistic Self Advocacy Network applauds Representative Van Hollen, Representative McMorris Rodgers and the other House co-sponsors for their leadership on this critical issue. Working in concert with Senators Grassley, Wyden and Casey in the Senate, we are confident that this bi-partisan investment in modernizing our nation’s disability policy will have a significant impact. People with disabilities have the right to be included in all sectors of society – this legislation will help make that happen.” Nicole Jorwic, Director of Rights Policy for The Arc, said, “This bill would ensure that any individual impacted by the closing of a segregated setting, would have access to community employment and integrated day services. The Arc is happy to see Congress taking action to support states to advance integrated employment opportunities for people with intellectual and developmental disabilities.” Jorwic continued, ”This is a topic of great importance to the disability community and The Arc is grateful to Representatives Van Hollen, McMorris Rodgers, and the co-sponsors of this legislation. We are confident that if passed this bill can help change the landscape of employment opportunities for people with disabilities across our country and move us towards a more inclusive society.”
07.14.2016	Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement after the House passed the Department of the Interior, Environment, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2017 (H.R. 5538). “Eastern Washington is home to some of the greatest natural resources in the world,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Our local communities and their leaders know how to manage their own land and the resources around them better than federal bureaucrats. This legislation includes key provisions that will help keep our communities safe from wildfires, protect farmers from overzealous EPA regulations, and maintain our beautiful, abundant public land as a recreational outlet for all walks of life.” Note: The bill includes several provisions McMorris Rodgers championed for Eastern Washington, including: Increased funding for wildfire prevention and firefighting consistent with the ten-year average. Fully funding the Payment in Lieu of Taxes program and prohibiting implementation of the Waters of the U.S. rule, a sweeping new regulation that will let the EPA micromanage everyone from our farmers to local landowners. Requires delisting of the Gray Wolf as an endangered species.
07.06.2016	Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, made the following statement after the Commission on Care released its final report on transforming veterans’ health care. “This report, put together by a panel of experts and veterans’ advocates, reiterates what we already know – that the Veterans Health Administration needs fundamental changes in its governance structure to ensure that our nation’s veterans get the care they need. I am encouraged that the Commission embraced this principle and recommended the creation of an independent governing board of directors to guide this transformation, proposed establishing a process for the VA to realign its capital assets in a strategic manner, and urged expanded choices for veterans to select their providers. My draft VA reform legislation embodies these fundamental concepts to create a more veteran-centric system that will ensure better and timelier care for our veterans. I look forward to reviewing the Commission’s report in its entirety and finding additional common ground with veterans’ service organizations on how to empower veterans to get the care they need, when they need it, from a provider of their choosing.” Note: Section 202 of the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-146) established the Commission on Care, which was tasked with developing recommendations for improving the delivery of health care to veterans over the next 20 years. On June 7, 2016, McMorris Rodgers released a discussion draft of legislation, the Caring for our Heroes in the 21st Century Act, which would modernize the way veterans receive health care. Click here to learn more and to read this draft.
07.06.2016	Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed the Restoring Access to Medication Act of 2015 (H.R. 1270). “It’s time to restore HSAs,” said McMorris Rodgers. “If we want to reduce long-term health care costs and ensure the American people have the ability to keep their families healthy, then they need to be able to use tax-free money from their Health Savings Accounts and Flexible Spending Accounts for over-the-counter health services, not just prescription drugs. This legislation allows people to save more and use their dollars to best benefit their health care needs.”
07.05.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), co-chair of the House Rural Health Care Coalition, released the following statement after the House passed the Patient Access to Durable Medical Equipment (PADME) Act (H.R. 5210), legislation she co-sponsored in May 2016. “Today the House voted to ensure that seniors in Eastern Washington and communities across this country have access to the monitors, crutches, oxygen tanks, and other medical equipment they need to go about their daily lives,” said McMorris Rodgers. “I am grateful for the leadership of Chairman Price on this issue, and encourage our colleagues in the Senate to pass the PADME Act. After all, life-saving medical equipment cannot help people if it’s not made available to the patients who need it – regardless of where they live.” NOTE: McMorris Rodgers joined a bipartisan coalition on May 12, 2016 in introducing the PADME Act. For information on its introduction, and a full background on this issue, click here.
06.29.2016	On Friday, July 1, 2016, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) will host a conversation on wildfire preparedness with local officials and community leaders. Media interested in covering this event are asked to please RSVP to WA05press@mail.house.gov. Information is as follows: WHO: Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers with local officials and community leaders WHAT: Wildfire Preparedness Conversation WHERE: Greater Spokane Incorporated (GSI) Conference Room, 801 West Riverside, Suite 100, Spokane, WA 99201 WHEN: Friday, July 1, 2016, at 9:45AM PT
06.27.2016	Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers released the following statement regarding the Supreme Court’s decision in Whole Women’s Health v. Hellerstedt. “America is the place where everyone is empowered to pursue their version of the American Dream,” said McMorris Rodgers. “That begins with prioritizing the safety of the American people, especially women, above profit or political victories. “In an industry where convicted murderer Kermit Gosnell’s horrific practices flew under the radar for years, the dangerous acceptance of abortion on demand — with no restrictions — needs to be taken seriously. This is about protecting women. I have long supported and will continue to support legislation to ensure our laws protect the dignity of every woman in this country.”
06.24.2016	Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement after the American Legislative Exchange Council (ALEC), the country’s largest nonpartisan, voluntary organization of state legislators, released a model resolution in support of ending unauthorized federal spending. “In the People’s House, restoring the voice of every man, woman and child in this country is a top priority,” said McMorris Rodgers. “For far too long, our carefully crafted balance of powers has been off-kilter, and the American people’s voice hasn’t been heard. One of the core causes is a legacy of unauthorized spending in the federal government. Too much of the government is on autopilot, and without the ability to review, rethink, or possibly eliminate government programs, it will continue to grow out of control. “We are called to serve those we represent, and eliminating unauthorized spending is just one step to restoring the people’s power in representative government. I’m grateful for ALEC showing leadership on this important issue and I urge all state legislatures to take up this resolution.” Note: On March 14, 2016, McMorris Rodgers introduced H.R. 4730, The Unauthorized Spending Accountability (USA) Act of 2016, which puts all unauthorized programs on a pathway to sunset in 3 years and requires any new authorizations or reauthorizations to include a sunset clause. This means every government program will be routinely scrutinized and updated by the People’s representatives.
06.23.2016	Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the United States Air Force announced today the selection of Fairchild Air Force Base as a candidate base at which to locate its new aerial refueling tanker, the KC-46A: “Today’s announcement affirms that Fairchild Air Force Base is one of the few bases with the capacity and expertise necessary to serve as the home for the next generation aerial refueling tanker,” said McMorris Rodgers. “The Air Force should choose Fairchild as the preferred alternative among the remaining candidate bases because of its visionary leadership, strategic location, mission expertise, and community support. I intend to work with my Washington State colleagues and others to continue making that case to the Air Force as vigorously as possible.” Note: McMorris Rodgers has been intimately involved in the ongoing conversations surrounding the strategic basing process for the KC-46A aerial refueling tanker since its beginning more than four years ago, including delegation letters and multiple meetings with Pentagon officials – most recently on April 15 at the Pentagon with a delegation from Greater Spokane Incorporated. She also met with USAF Assistant Secretary Ballentine about Fairchild and the tankers on March 1. On March 3, she met with General Carlton Everhart, Commander of USAF’s Air Mobility Command, to make the pitch for Fairchild receiving the tankers. Going forward, site survey teams will visit each base sometime this summer to conduct detailed, on-the-ground site surveys of each candidate base. The reviews will assess each location against operational requirements, potential impacts to existing missions, housing, infrastructure, and manpower. Additionally, they will develop cost estimates to bed down the KC-46A for each candidate base. The information will then be presented to the Secretary of the Air Force for a decision on a preferred and reasonable alternatives, tentatively by the end of this year.
06.23.2016	Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement after the Supreme Court released its decision on United States v. Texas. “Only the American people, through their elected representatives, have the power to make law – and that’s what the Supreme Court made clear today,” said McMorris Rodgers. “As the President himself has said repeatedly, he does not have the authority under the Constitution to change immigration law unilaterally, and this decision sets the precedent he doesn’t have the authority to legislate on other issues either. “Commonsense, permanent solutions are needed to reform our fundamentally broken immigration system. However, these solutions must come from the American people through their representatives in Congress, not through a decree from the executive branch.”
06.22.2016	Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the Indian Asset Reform Act (H.D. 812) was signed into law, which will provide tribes in Eastern Washington and across the country flexibility to manage their own land. “As a cosponsor of this legislation, I believe that the tribes, not unelected D.C. bureaucrats, should be able to decide how to use native lands,” said McMorris Rodgers. “The Tribes in Eastern Washington are capable of effectively and efficiently managing their assets. This legislation establishes a voluntary demonstration project that increases tribal flexibility to provide additional control over their land. I applaud the President’s decision to sign this important legislation into law, and I look forward to continuing to work with Eastern Washington tribes for the betterment of the region.”
06.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today announced the winner of the annual Congressional Art Competition for high school students living in Eastern Washington. First Place: “Albert Einstein” by Sophia DeFelice First Place was awarded to Sophia DeFelice, a sophomore at Gonzaga Prep in Spokane, for her graphite on paper, “Albert Einstein.” As the winner, she had the opportunity to fly to Washington, D.C. to receive recognition for her talent, and her artwork will hang in the United States Capitol for a year. Sophia is the daughter of Monique and Vincent DeFelice, and her artistic prowess should come as no surprise – it runs in the family! Sophia’s father created the famous bronze bulldog statue at Gonzaga University. Sophia’s art teacher at Gonzaga Prep is Katelyn McDonnell. Runner Up: “Expressionless Pixels” by Chloe Coffey One of the four runner ups was Chloe Coffey, a freshman at College Place High School in College Place, for her digital imaging piece titled “Expressionless Pixels.” Chloe is the daughter of Kymberlee Hoskins. Her art teacher at College Place High School is Kathi DeBroeck. Runner Up: “The Frozen Forest” by Jennifer Payton Jennifer Payton, a sophomore at Shadle Park High School in Spokane, submitted a digital photograph titled “The Frozen Forest.” Jennifer is the daughter of Marlana and David Payton. Her art teacher at Shadle Park High School is Thomas Smith. Runner Up: “The Tree” by Dakotah Piekos Dakotah Piekos, a senior at SEA-TECH Skills Center in Walla Walla, submitted a photograph titled “The Tree.” Dakotah is the daughter of Ryan Piekos. Her art teacher at SEA-TECH Skills Center is Jeffrey Townsend. Runner Up: “Freedom for All” by Kimberly “Kimby” Chaney Kimberly “Kimby” Chaney, a freshman at Lakeside High School in Nine Mile Falls, submitted a watercolor titled “Freedom for All.” Kimby is the daughter of Scott and Sherry Chaney. Her art teacher at Lakeside High School is Bruce Blaser. “I am so proud of all our talented students here in Eastern Washington,” said McMorris Rodgers. “They never fail to impress with their art of all varieties. Congratulations to Sophia! It was great to meet her this afternoon, and I look forward to seeing her beautiful drawing as I walk to the Capitol each day.” The Congressional Art Competition is an annual competition for high school students across the United States. Each Congressional office selects one winner to display in the tunnel connecting the Cannon House Office Building to the U.S. Capitol traveled daily by members of Congress, staff, and visitors to Washington, D.C.
06.16.2016	Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the Dialysis Patient Access to Integrated-care, Empowerment, Nephrologists, and Treatment (PATIENTS) Act (H.R. 5506), legislation she co-sponsored, was introduced in the House. This bill would establish an ESRD Integrated Care Demonstration Program within Medicare to assist dialysis patients in receiving high-quality, integrated and coordinated care. Since these patients receive four-hour treatments at least three times a week, this program would utilize the dialysis facility as the main point of care for ESRD patients. “Being on dialysis is difficult enough,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Let’s make the situation easier for patients and their families by centralizing where these men and women can receive their care. Instead of hopping from clinic to dialysis center to a doctor’s office, they will have more flexibility and be able to access everything – and everyone – they need in one location.”
06.16.2016	Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed the Department of Defense Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2017 (H.R. 5293). She released the following statement after the vote: “I am proud to represent Fairchild Air Force Base in Eastern Washington,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Meeting with and listening to the men and women who serve our nation in the Armed Forces is a constant reminder of the need to be ready, equipped, and able to address threats to our safety and security. Today’s legislation includes vital funding our troops need to be properly trained and equipped to do their jobs as safely and effectively as possible, while ensuring the health and well-being of our service members and their families. This bill also includes funding for the continued procurement of the Air Force’s new aerial refueling tanker, the KC-46A, which will help ensure our nation’s continued air superiority, which Fairchild plays a critical role in maintaining.”
06.12.2016	Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement regarding the terrorist attack on a nightclub in Orlando. “Every man, woman, and child in this country deserves the basic comfort of knowing they’re safe from terror in their own community,” said Cathy McMorris Rodgers. “Terrorism anywhere is cowardly and devastating, but when it happens at home – in our own backyard – it leaves us with emotions and worries that, as a free and prosperous society, we never think we’ll be forced to face. ‘It could have been my brother, my sister, my friend.’ ‘It could have been me.’ “This is a time for Americans of all walks of life to lean on one another, to pray together, and to lift each other up. We are all neighbors, and we are all in this together. Everyone involved and their loved ones are in my prayers today.” “Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted.” Matthew 5:4
06.08.2016	Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed the Ozone Standards Implementation Act of 2016 (H.R. 4775), which provides flexibility for states to meet the current ozone standards published in 2015 by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). “The EPA’s air quality regulations, in their current form, place a tremendous burden on Eastern Washington,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Despite the fact that ozone levels have declined significantly since the Clean Air Act was amended in 1990, the EPA doubled down by setting unrealistic expectations that cannot be met without serious damage to our economy. The regulations are unnecessarily strict and leave states in an impossible situation. This legislation is a thoughtful, commonsense approach that protects air quality and public health, while allowing for the flexibility needed to keep our economy thriving.”
06.08.2016	Bill would honor the legacy of former Washington Governor and Senator Dan Evans and his work to protect wilderness areas within the state Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) along with members of the House Washington State Delegation, U.S. Reps. Derek Kilmer (D-WA), Dan Newhouse (R-WA), Reps. Suzan DelBene (D-WA), Dennis Heck (D-WA), Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA), Rick Larsen (D-WA), Jim McDermott (D-WA), Dave Reichert (R-WA), and Adam Smith (D-WA) introduced H.R. 5397, a bill to rename the Olympic Wilderness within Olympic National Park as the “Daniel J. Evans Wilderness,” in honor of former Washington Governor and Senator Dan Evans. Dan Evans served the state of Washington for more than 50 years, including service as a state legislator, governor and United States Senator. During his time in the U.S. Senate, Evans was the lead sponsor of the Washington Park Wilderness Act of 1988 which designated over 1.5 million acres of wilderness areas in Washington, including 877,000 acres within Olympic National Park as “the Olympic Wilderness.” The Washington State Delegation released the following statement after introducing the bill: “As a conservationist and an outdoor recreationalist, Sen. Dan Evans understands the importance of protecting Washington State’s natural treasures so they can be enjoyed by future generations. Throughout his distinguished career, he worked tirelessly to preserve our state’s national parks and forests and played a critical role in the passage of the 1984 and 1988 Washington Wilderness Acts. It is only fitting that the name of the Olympic National Park wilderness recognizes the efforts of the man who fought so hard to preserve it.” Washington State Sens. Cantwell and Murray introduced identical companion legislation in the U.S. Senate.
06.07.2016	Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today released a discussion draft of legislation, the Caring for our Heroes in the 21st Century Act, which would modernize the way veterans receive health care. “Every day I hear from veterans in Eastern Washington who are struggling to work with the VA,” said McMorris Rodgers. “We have a profound obligation to honor the service of our veterans and ensure that our heroes’ sacrifices shouldn’t continue after their tours of duty end. With the never ending wait times and the VA Secretary doubling down on his comparison to Disney, the time has long passed for the VA to make the necessary changes to ensure that our veterans are treated effectively, seen efficiently, and cared for with respect. Veterans should be freed from a system that offers them little or no choice. “With this draft legislation, my goal is for veterans to have the ability to choose what health care plan best fits their individual needs. This proposal should serve as the starting point for putting veterans in charge of their health care. I look forward to receiving feedback from veterans and the organizations that represent them, so we can ensure veterans receive the health care they deserve and have earned in a timely manner.” Note: The Caring for our Heroes in the 21st Act is a draft document which serves as an opportunity to discuss ideas for introduction in the future. Click here to read the discussion draft, which has not yet been introduced in the U.S. House of Representatives. ###
05.26.2016	Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement after being named a Conferee for the Energy Policy Modernization Act (S.2012), the first comprehensive energy bill in nearly ten years. “This legislation significantly reforms our energy and public lands practices to allow for innovation in Washington State,” said McMorris Rodgers. “I am proud to be leading the hydropower and forestry reforms that are included in this bill, and I believe it is important they remain strong components in any final version. I look forward to strengthening this legislation and delivering for Eastern Washington. I am thankful for the opportunity to serve as a Conferee on this landmark energy package.” NOTE: S.2012 includes provisions authored by McMorris Rodgers on both hydropower and forestry issues. She introduced the hydropower language as a bipartisan amendment in Committee. The most important provisions streamline and modernize the hydropower relicensing process, substantially lowering costs while providing certainty for the industry. McMorris Rodgers’s language allows for increased collaboration and transparency by gathering the stakeholders at the start of the relicensing process to provide their expertise to maintain the surrounding ecosystem’s environmental integrity. McMorris Rodgers previously introduced the first forestry reform bill this Congress, and many of her ideas were incorporated in the Resilient Federal Forests Act. Her work helps to prevent catastrophic wildfire, effectively fight fires when they happen, improve forest health, and bring jobs to rural communities.
05.24.2016	Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today announced a new addition to her Spokane office, District Director Traci Couture. “Traci’s commitment to Eastern Washington is commendable,” said McMorris Rodgers. “She grew up here, went to school here, is raising her family here, and I am thrilled to have her join my team. I know she will continue to do great work and lead in our commitment to serving the wonderful people of Eastern Washington.” Traci previously served as Operations Director at the Spokane Teaching Health Center, where she was responsible for designing a new, inter-professional medical clinic. She grew up in Walla Walla, WA and graduated from Walla Walla High School. She received a Bachelor of Arts in Business Administration from Washington State University and a Master of Business Administration from Liberty University. Traci has spent the majority of her career working in health care operations. Additionally, Traci served on the Executive Committee for the American Association of Teaching Health Centers, an organization representing 60 teaching health center programs across the country. She has two sons, Matthew and Alex.
05.23.2016	Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement after U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Secretary Bob McDonald compared wait lines for VA health care to Disney. “When you go to Disney, you aren’t wondering if you’re going to live long enough to make it to Space Mountain,” said McMorris Rodgers. “You aren’t concerned for your health, your parents’ wellbeing, or your buddy’s safety. Our servicemen and women have died while waiting in lines. And with 18 percent of appointment cancellations going unfilled, we can do better.” Note: On January 8, 2016, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) and Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) introduced the Faster Care for Veterans Act (H.R. 4352), a bill that requires the U.S. Department of Veteran Affairs (VA) to commence a pilot program which incorporates commercially available self-scheduling technologies at VA medical facilities. In January, McMorris Rodgers and Moulton spoke to Stars and Stripes about the inspiration for the legislation, and how this proposal would be more efficient and affordable than agency-proposed alternatives. Later that month, McMorris Rodgers talked with Sheila Hagar of the Walla Walla Union-Bulletin about how the bill empowers veterans while giving VA employees more tools to do their jobs effectively and efficiently. In March, the Oversight and Government Reform Committee’s subcommittee on Information Technology, chaired by Representative Will Hurd (R-TX), held a hearing that highlighted the need for the VA to modernize its scheduling system. And in an op-ed published on The Washington Post’s “Power Post” on April 26, McMorris Rodgers called for a “a commonsense, 21st Century veterans’ health care system” that “treats our veterans with dignity and respect, and ensures our heroes’ sacrifices don’t continue after their tours end.”
05.20.2016	Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement after the Department of Labor released their finalized overtime rule: “I am concerned that top-down, government-knows-best regulations coming from unelected, unaccountable bureaucrats in Washington, D.C., while well-intentioned, may hurt the very people they’re intended to help,” said McMorris Rodgers. “I’ve heard from local employers in my own district who say the regulation could have the unintended consequence of forcing small businesses and startups to eliminate salaried positions or shift salaried workers to hourly employees, limiting their flexibility to meet the needs of their families. Decisions that so strongly affect employees and employers across this country should come from, and be made by, the American people through their elected representatives – not from ‘on high’ government decrees.”
05.18.2016	Today Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) voted for the Fiscal Year 2017 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA), which authorizes critical funding for Fairchild Air Force Base in Eastern Washington. She released the following statement after the vote: “Our primary obligation is the safety and security of the American people,” said McMorris Rodgers. “As the world becomes more dangerous and our enemies more complex, America’s leadership is needed on the world stage now more than ever. I am proud to represent Fairchild Air Force Base in Eastern Washington, and the men and women based there are a constant reminder that we can never thank our military personnel enough for their service. One way we can show our gratitude is by ensuring they have the necessary resources and equipment to keep us safe. “With this year’s defense bill, we’re making sure our troops are ready with the resources and training they need to keep us safe. At home in Eastern Washington, Fairchild Air Force Base will be authorized to receive resources to enhance its Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and Escape Training School. “The NDAA is not just spending more – it’s about spending better, by using taxpayer dollars wisely and stressing the importance of rebuilding our military. This is our opportunity to review, rethink, and improve programs, and it’s an opportunity we take seriously. In fact, we should be having the same conversation we have for the Defense Department for every program, and every agency.”
05.13.2016	Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement after the House passed a package of legislation addressing the United States’s growing opioid epidemic. “While we may come from different hometowns and different backgrounds, the People’s House is united in the common tragedy of opioid addiction,” said McMorris Rodgers. “The American people called on us to act, and that’s we continued doing this week, passing several bills that combat abuse, increase our understanding of this issue, and promote innovative care. Thank you to my colleagues for their tireless hard work on this crisis. No one can fight this battle alone–nor should they have to. Let’s continue to shine a light on the challenges facing the American people, and ensure their voice is heard so that every man, woman, and child in this country feels more secure in their lives and in their futures.” Note: The House Republicans have been tireless advocates for those impacted by the opioid crisis in America. Recent events include addiction survivor Nick Yacoub sharing his story, a press conference featuring the sponsors of several of the 18 bills passed this week, and leadership press conference earlier this week.
05.12.2016	Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), co-chair of the House Rural Health Care Coalition, joined a bipartisan group in introducing the Patient Access to Durable Medical Equipment (PADME) Act (H.R. 5210), which would preserve patient access to durable medical equipment (DME) in non-competitive bid areas, the majority of which are rural communities. “Seniors of all backgrounds rely on durable medical equipment to go about their daily lives – whether it’s to simply walk around without falling or to breathe normally when their lungs can no longer do it on their own,” said McMorris Rodgers. “But this equipment cannot save lives if it isn’t made available to those who need it most, especially in rural areas where barriers to access care may already exist. I am grateful for Chairman Tom Price (R-GA) as well as Reps. Peter Welch (D-VT) and Dave Loebsack (D-IA) for their collaboration in introducing this important legislation, and working to ensure that seniors in Eastern Washington and across the country have access to quality medical equipment.” Currently, a second round of severe cuts to Medicare DME payment rates are scheduled to take effect on July 1, 2016, and this legislation will ensure that DME providers are able to meet the needs of Medicare patients and guarantee they have access to quality items and services, including blood sugar monitors, canes, crutches, hospital beds, oxygen tanks, and more. BACKGROUND: The Competitive Bidding Program (CBP) was created by the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003. The Congressional objective in requiring Medicare to use competitive bidding to establish payment amounts for DME was intended to reduce Medicare and beneficiary expenditures and ensure that beneficiaries have access to quality items and services. The CBP has failed patients because it does not hold bidders accountable, does not ensure that bidders are qualified to provide the products in the bid markets, and produces bid rates that are financially unsustainable. More than 240 market auction experts and economists have warned that the Medicare competitive bidding program is unsustainable in its current form. In January 2016, the competitive bidding program for DME began its nationwide rollout. As a result, many areas, including rural areas, saw significant cuts, jeopardizing access to DME for beneficiaries. For many rural providers, these new rates will not even cover the cost of delivery for the item. An extension of the current DME rate is necessary to avert deep cuts in reimbursement following the rollout of Medicare’s competitive bid pricing into non-competitively bid areas. The PADME Act would provide relief by extending the current reimbursement rates of DME in non-competitively bid areas in order to provide Congress with additional time to monitor its effects in rural areas. The PADME Act also seeks to address the underlying issues with DME reimbursement under the CBP. For information on bidding areas, click here and click here to read the entire PADME Act bill text. Senators John Thune (R-SD) and Heidi Heitkamp (D-ND) previously introduced the Patient Access to Durable Medical Equipment Act of 2016 (S. 2736) in the U.S. Senate, a similar companion bill.
05.09.2016	Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today announced staff-led May mobile office hours, which will be held across Eastern Washington throughout the month. “It’s an honor to represent you in the People’s House, and while I’m working for you at the U.S. Capitol, my team is always on the ground here in Eastern Washington,” McMorris Rodgers said. “If you are having trouble with a federal agency or have ideas about our government, we’re here to listen and help.” Anyone who needs assistance with a federal agency or would like to voice an opinion on federal issues is encouraged to come by—no appointment necessary. Staff members will be ready and available to discuss resolving issues with federal agencies and federal government resources, including: · Social Security, · Internal Revenue Service (IRS), · The Department of Veteran Affairs, · Immigration, · And others. As our representative in the People’s House, Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers seeks to make her office as accessible as possible to folks throughout Eastern Washington. May Mobile Offices Wednesday, May 11 Newport: Pend Oreille County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers, 625 W 4th St, 10:00 AM – 11:30 AM Davenport: Lincoln County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers, 450 Logan St, 2:00 PM – 3:30 PM Thursday, May 19 Dayton: Port of Columbia Office, Conference Room, 1 Port Way, 10:00 AM – 11:30 AM Pomeroy: Garfield County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers, 789 Main St, 1:00 PM – 2:30 PM
05.05.2016	Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today released the following reaction to a federal judge’s ruling on Biological Opinion (BiOp): “This week’s ruling is a disappointment. Our community leaders in the Northwest River region have worked tirelessly on a true collaborative effort that ensures critical hydropower energy can continue to power our families, farmers, and businesses — while also making sure our salmon population is protected. Those very community leaders are warning that this ruling will set the region back, which no one should take lightly. We owe it to the Pacific Northwest and the rest of the country to expand an energy source that will lower energy costs and create jobs, and I’m going to continue doing everything I can to help our community leaders wage a path forward for the BiOp.”
05.03.2016	Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) announced the publication of its final rules on menu labeling. “The FDA’s menu-labeling requirements are, at their core, fundamentally unworkable,” said McMorris Rodgers. “The irony of this announcement coming during National Small Business Week is not lost. If we want nutrition information to be available to the greatest number of people in the most effective manner possible, then we need to make it easier for small business owners to display it where their customers are – including online, by phone, or through apps.” The FDA’s menu-labeling regulations will require restaurants with 20 or more locations – tens of thousands of which are franchised locations operated by local small business owners – to display in-store all nutrition information for every possible combination on their menus. For some businesses, the combinations are in the tens of millions. Note: On February 12, the House passed McMorris Rodgers’s bipartisan legislation, the Common Sense Nutrition Disclosure Act (H.R. 2017), which gives restaurants, grocers, and convenience stores the freedom to provide nutrition information in a way consistent with how they operate and how their customers order.
04.29.2016	Spokane, WA – Next week, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) will hold events in Pullman and Spokane. Eastern Washington’s Congresswoman will participate in town hall events in Pullman and Spokane, talk with students at Washington State University and tour nuclear research facilities, meet with the Spokane Tribe of Indians, and visit a Spokane Rite Aid pharmacy to discuss the Opioid epidemic. Find the full published list of activities, times, and locations below. If you are interested in covering any of these events, please RSVP to WA05press@mail.house.gov. Published Schedule for Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers Tuesday, May 3 8:15 AM ROUNDTABLE: Discussion of the proposed U.S. Department of Labor Overtime Rule Location: Schweitzer Engineering Laboratories 2350 NE Hopkins Court Pullman, WA 99163 9:30 AM TOUR: Washington State University Academic and Research Facilities Location: Washington State University Pullman, WA 99163 Rep. McMorris Rodgers will tour research facilities and meet with faculty in the fields of nuclear, agricultural, and veterinary science. 12:00 PM TOWN HALL: “Coffee & Politics” at the Thomas S. Foley Institute for Public Policy and Public Service Location: Foley Speaker’s Room, 308 Bryan Hall Washington State University Pullman, WA 99163 1:30 PM MEETING: Pullman Vision Source Location: 238 East Main Street Pullman, WA 99163 2:15 PM MEETING: Pullman-Moscow Airport Location: 3200 Airport Rd Pullman, WA 99163 Rep. McMorris Rodgers will visit the Pullman-Moscow Airport with Pullman Mayor Glenn Johnson and Pullman-Moscow Regional Airport Director Tony Bean. 3:30 PM MEETING: Pullman Regional Hospital Location: 835 SE Bishop Blvd Pullman, WA 99163 Rep. McMorris Rodgers will visit the Pullman Regional Hospital and meet with Scott Adams, Dr. Gerald Early, Dr. Bob Maudlin, and Dr. Judith Pauwels. 4:30 PM TOWN HALL: “Conversation with Cathy” in Pullman Location: Barley Room, Pioneer Center 240 Southeast Dexter Street Pullman, WA 99163 Rep. McMorris Rodgers will a town hall in Pullman. This event is open to anyone who wants to ask a question. The Congresswoman looks forward to hearing your ideas and giving an update on her work to expand opportunities and restore the voice of “We, the people” in our representative government. Wednesday, May 4 8:30 AM MEETING: WSU President Kirk Schultz Location: Palm Court Grill in The Historic Davenport Hotel 10 S Post St Spokane, WA 99201 11:30 AM TOWN HALL: “Fixing Veterans Health Care” hosted by the Concerned Veterans for America Location: The Davenport Grand Hotel 333 West Spokane Falls Blvd Spokane, WA 99201 Thursday, May 5 8:00 AM SPEAKING: GSI’s Inland NW World Trade Day Location: Spokane Community College, Lair Building 1810 N Greene Street Spokane, WA 99217 9:45 AM TOUR: Spokane area Rite Aid Location: To be announced Rep. McMorris Rodgers will visit a Spokane Rite Aid pharmacy to discuss the Opioid epidemic. 2:00 PM MEETING: Spokane County Commissioners Location: Spokane County Courthouse 1116 West Broadway Ave Spokane, WA 99260 3:30 PM MEETING: Spokane Tribe of Indians Location: U.S. Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers District Office 10 N Post St, Ste 625 Spokane, WA 99201
04.27.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement after the House passed the Email Privacy Act (H.R. 699), which updates and strengthens the Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986. McMorris Rodgers has been a proponent of this legislation since it was first introduced in the 113th Congress. “1986 was a different time,” said McMorris Rodgers. “The writers of our original electronic privacy legislation couldn’t have possibly fathomed the growth and innovation we’d experience ten, twenty, now thirty years later. This law was written before the modern internet as we know it existed and is yet another example of legislation that is long overdue for an update. “Today I voted to strengthen Digital Due Process, by requiring law enforcement to obtain a warrant before accessing individuals’ emails. This update is a step in the right direction of modernizing laws and standards that reflect a 21st Century, confident America where ‘We, the People’ feel secure in our lives—and in our private information.” NOTE: This morning McMorris Rodgers participated in a press conference discussing the Email Privacy Act. Click here to view.
04.27.2016	Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) calls for “a common sense, 21st century veterans’ health care system” in an Op-Ed published on The Washington Post‘s “Power Post” on April 26. “Veterans died while on VA waiting lists, and it is unconscionable that there has been little effort on the part of the agency to reform its own culture, rectify this situation, or hold those responsible accountable,” McMorris Rodgers writes. “Unbelievably, as we approach two years since the scandal broke out at the VA with secret wait lists, patients dying waiting for appointments, and an overwhelming feeling of hopelessness, we’re finding that our veterans still aren’t even coming close to that vision for 21st century care.” Veterans continue to tell McMorris Rodgers that one of the biggest challenges they face at the VA is simply getting an appointment. On January 8, McMorris Rodgers and Democrat Seth Moulton (MA-06) introduced the Faster Care for Veterans Act of 2016 (H.R. 4352), which will empower veterans and give VA employees more tools to do their jobs effectively and efficiently. Click here to read the full Op-Ed, and find additional excerpts below: ON SELF-SCHEDULING APPOINTMENTS | An audit released last week by the Government Accountability Office (GAO) found that the VA still hasn’t fixed the wait times that plagued the system two years ago; schedulers at half the reviewed centers had falsified wait times, and scheduling was done improperly a quarter of the time. An earlier report revealed that as of January, more than 30,000 veterans were waiting longer than one month for health care than they were the year before. … I believe we should open up the scheduling process to the same technologies being used in doctors’ offices by private citizens across the country, which is why I’ve introduced bipartisan legislation that incorporates self-scheduling so veterans can schedule and confirm medical appointments online and immediately. .. Self-scheduling is only one example of the endless possibilities for a 21st century VA — one that treats our veterans with dignity and respect, and ensures our heroes’ sacrifices don’t continue after their tours end.” ON GETTING VETERANS THE CARE THEY EARNED | “If we don’t clean house at the VA and overhaul its culture, we’re just biding time until another—potentially worse—scandal surfaces … Over the coming months, we will focus on legislation that demonstrates to the VA how innovative ideas already being used in the private sector can also work for them to cut back on red tape, stay within budget, and, most importantly, get our veterans the care they earned and need. … The time has run out for the VA to address its issues on its own. … If this administration cannot follow through on the fundamental duty and solemn obligation to serve our veterans with the VA as-is, then it’s time to try something different. … No more waiting. No more sitting by the phone hoping that someone follows up.”
04.21.2016	Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed four Internal Revenue Service reform bills. “Today, the House took action to give the American people peace of mind and confidence to live their lives,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Families and job creators in every corner of this country are frustrated by an IRS putting itself first, the people second. It’s time to say enough is enough. “If an IRS employee didn’t earn a bonus, they shouldn’t receive one. If someone was fired for misconduct, they shouldn’t be rehired. If the IRS is going to charge everyone a fee to file their taxes, the people should have a say in how it is spent. And the IRS shouldn’t have employees with significant personal tax debt. These are all common sense, and I applaud Reps. Kristi Noem (R-SD), Pat Meehan (R-PA), Jason Smith (R-MO), and David Rouzer (R-NC) for their work on bills that will bring accountability to the IRS and return more control to the American people. “We were not sent to Washington to protect the status quo — We are here to challenge it. So as we build our agenda for a more confident America, we will be reforming our tax code by enacting pro-growth policies and restoring fiscal discipline, so that we can create jobs and keep the American Dream alive for the next generation.” Note: Earlier this week Reps Noem and Smith joined McMorris Rodgers and House Leadership in a press conference on Capitol Hill to discuss tax day and this week’s legislation to hold the IRS accountable. Click here to view.
04.18.2016	House Passes Bill to Name Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) Program after First Woman Member of Congress Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed the 100 Years of Women in Congress Act. The bill honors late Republican Congresswoman Jeannette Rankin from Montana – the first woman member of Congress—and names the U.S. Department of Agriculture Women and Minorities STEM Fields program as the ‘Jeanette Rankin Women and Minorities in STEM Fields Program.’ “Congresswoman Jeannette Rankin, who also once called Spokane home, is an inspiration and a trailblazer,” said McMorris Rodgers. “She made waves in a male-dominated environment and paved the way for today’s historic 104 women in Congress. It’s now our opportunity to carry her torch, and encourage more women in all fields to come to the table and inspire the next generation of female leaders. “Although a majority of elementary school girls say they like science and math, only a fraction of college engineering majors are female. STEM is not a boys’ field or a girls’ field – it’s the growing future of our economy, and it’s time to level the playing field so women can keep making history for centuries to come.”
04.18.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Eastern Washington’s Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement reacting to “Tax Day.” “It may be a few days later than normal, but Tax Day is still one of the most frustrating days of the year,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Tax Day is our annual reminder of the clunky, outdated, complicated tax code that frustrates and confuses even the experts. Just imagine how the single mom, graduate student, or the family running a small business feels. You shouldn’t have to contact your Member of Congress to ask the Internal Revenue Service a question. So, this week, the House will vote to hold the IRS accountable and give more peace of mind and confidence to that family or small business who is just trying to do the right thing. This is only one part of our bold agenda to restore a confident America—one that allows Americans to keep more of the money they earn and keeps the American Dream alive for the next generation.”
04.15.2016	Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), a member of the Congressional Internet Caucus, released the following statement after the House passed the No Rate Regulation of Broadband Internet Access Act (H.R. 2666), which was introduced by Rep. Adam Kinzinger (R-IL). “The internet is a cornerstone of our 21st Century economy,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Any regulation of it should come from and be decided on by the American people through their elected representatives — not by unaccountable, unelected bureaucrats. Today the House voted to ensure that the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) keeps its promise to not regulate internet rates and to provide more certainty to the millions of people who rely on internet for daily life.”
04.12.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today Eastern Washington’s Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement about the importance of equal pay for equal work: “Being paid less because you’re a woman is wrong and repulsive. Equal pay for equal work is the law, and it must be enforced to make certain there is no pay disparity based on the fact that an employee is female or male. If the protections already provided to women and others are not working, let’s strengthen them to reflect the needs of our modern workplace. “Women make up 47 percent of today’s work force; we are an economic force in this country. The conversations today remind us that despite how far we have come, more work needs to be done to update our laws for this 21st Century economy, so every person can have greater flexibility to be successful in both their career and their family. “This can only happen through a national conversation about how we can level the playing field, so women—and everyone—have every opportunity to succeed in the workforce regardless of their background or walk of life.”
04.08.2016	The USA Act is Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers’s latest effort to help restore the voice of, “We, the People,” and reclaim the power of the purse on behalf of America’s families and individuals. Here’s a look at the continuing support for McMorris Rodgers’s USA Act. American Commitment: End unauthorized federal spending “The federal government is scheduled to spend $310 billion of your tax dollars this year on federal programs that are not authorized by law according to the Congressional Budget Office. … The good news is an innovative legislative solution has been proposed by Republican Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers: automatic reductions in spending via sequestration for programs that remain unauthorized, and ultimately phasing them out completely unless Congress acts to reauthorize them.” “These major agencies and all of the other programs operating without legal authorization are set on autopilot, with no meaningful oversight from our elected officials in Congress to review their purpose, structure, or effectiveness with our tax dollars. From an institutional standpoint, the vast majority of congressional committees have been made irrelevant, because programs in their jurisdiction continue—whether authorized or not.” “Rep. McMorris Rodgers’s ingenious bill restores Congress’s authorizing committees to their proper role. The Unauthorized Spending Accountability (USA) Act of 2016, H.R. 4730, would penalize programs that do not seek and receive reauthorization with automatic spending cuts – enforced by the only mechanism we know cannot be easily sidestepped: sequestration.” “It is no secret that Congress wastes a lot of time in committee hearings and markups that ultimately have no impact on anything – because everything gets funded anyway in a big year-end package. Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers’s USA Act flips that autopilot switch off and actually closes federal programs that fail to justify their effectiveness. Finally.” American Legislative Exchange Council (ALEC): ALEC Alumni Address Taxpayers’ $310 Billion Unauthorized Appropriations Problem “The American Legislative Exchange Council, an organization dedicated to limited government, free markets and federalism, supports the goals of the Unauthorized Spending Act and believes it to be sound budget policy that would benefit both taxpayers and our federal government.” “America’s taxpayers deserve strong advocates in Congress protecting their hard earned wages, not deference to unelected bureaucrats.” “Unauthorized appropriations are a significant waste of taxpayer dollars. Thankfully, Budget Committee Chairman Price and Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers will continue to advance policy solutions that respect hardworking taxpayers. The Association of Mature American Citizens (AMAC): H.R. 4730: the Unauthorized Spending Accountability Act “This important piece of legislation takes a significant step to halt unauthorized spending and to restore Americans’ trust in their government. A bill like this is long overdue, and AMAC applauds Chairman McMorris Rodgers for her bold stance on behalf of the American People. With an ever-increasing deficit, and vital entitlements like Medicare and Social Security facing looming insolvency, the USA Act offers a practical and timely solution to a financial crisis decades in the making.” “Unlike previous bills aimed at cutting programs and rooting out waste, fraud, and abuse, H.R. 4730 grants Congress the necessary legal power to see these programs terminated or properly reauthorized. By implementing a three-year sunset on all unauthorized and expiring appropriated programs, and by mandating that all new and reauthorizing appropriated programs must have a three-year sunset provision, the USA Act will stem the tide of runaway government spending. In addition to restoring financial order in Washington, this bill will also return power to the Peoples’ representatives, allowing them to further scrutinize where and how taxpayer dollars are being spent.” “We commend Chairman McMorris Rodgers and her attentive staff for their commonsense, fiscally responsible, and forward-thinking solution that will affect millions of Americans nationwide. AMAC is pleased to offer our organization’s full support to the Unauthorized Spending Accountability Act.” On March 14, 2016, McMorris Rodgers introduced the Unauthorized Spending Accountability (USA) Act of 2016 (H.R. 4730). McMorris Rodgers’ legislation has received strong support from organizations across the country, including Americans for Prosperity, the National Taxpayers Union, Americans for Tax Reform, Citizens Against Government Waste, FreedomWorks, the American Conservative Union, the Hispanic Leadership Fund, the Black Economic-Security Trust, Generation Opportunity, and many others. Click here to learn more.
04.01.2016	Spokane, WA – Next week, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) will travel throughout Eastern Washington listening to the people she serves. She will host five town hall events, four roundtable discussions, work behind the bar as a Starbucks barista, and meet with those who provide assistance to children who are victims of abuse (see the full list of her open media events below). At her “Conversation with Cathy” town hall events, McMorris Rodgers will give an update on her work to expand opportunities and restore the voice of “We, the people” in our representative government. These events are open to anyone who wants to ask a question. McMorris Rodgers will hold events in six counties and will meet with veterans, farmers, doctors, builders, high school students, business owners, community leaders, and whoever would like to ask her a question. If you are interested in covering these events, please RSVP to Ian Field (ian.field@mail.house.gov). Open Media Events for Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers: Monday, April 4 8:30 AM VISIT: CancerCare Northwest Location: 1204 N. Vercler Rd. Spokane Valley, WA 99216 9:30 AM TOWN HALL: Liberty Lake “Conversation with Cathy” **This event is open to the public.** Location: HUB Sports Center 19619 E. Cataldo Liberty Lake, WA 99016 11:00 AM VISIT: Starbucks ‘Behind-the-Bar’ **This event is open to the public.** Location: Starbucks 4719 North Division Street Spokane, WA 99207 2:15 PM MEETING: Partners with Families and Children Location: The Spokane Office of Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers Peyton Building 10 N Post St Spokane, WA 99201 2:45 PM MEETING: Disability Rights Washington Location: The Spokane Office of Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers Peyton Building 10 N Post St Spokane, WA 99201 4:00 PM TOUR: Spokane HomeBuilders Work Site Location: 13318 North Mayfair Lane Spokane, WA 99208 Tuesday, April 5 9:15 AM VISIT: Pend Oreille Public Utility District Location: 13 N Washington Ave Newport, WA 99156 11:00 AM TOWN HALL: Cusick “Conversation with Cathy” **This event is open to the public.** Location: Camas Center 1821 N. LeClerc Road, #1 Cusick, WA 99119 1:30 PM ROUNDTABLE: Providence Northeast Washington Medical Group Location: 1200 E Columbia Ave Colville, WA 99114 3:00 PM ROUNDTABLE: Colville Community Leaders Location: TEDD Meeting Room 986 S Main Street Colville, WA 99114 4:30 PM TOWN HALL: Colville “Conversation with Cathy” **This event is open to the public.** Location: The HUB Senior Center 231 W. Elep Ave Colville, WA 99114 Wednesday, April 6 8:00 AM ROUNDTABLE: Farms & Agriculture Location: The McGregor Company 401 Airport Rd Colfax, WA 99163 10:15 AM ROUNDTABLE: Veterans Location: 95 2nd Street Asotin, WA 99402 11:30 AM TOWN HALL: Clarkston “Conversation with Cathy” **This event is open to the public.** Location: Walla Walla Community College – Clarkston Auditorium 1470 Bridge Street Clarkston, WA 99403 1:00 PM VISIT: Clarkston High School Civics Class Location: 401 Chestnut Street Clarkston, WA 99403 4:00 PM TOWN HALL: Dayton “Conversation with Cathy” **This event is open to the public.** Location: Dayton Memorial Library Delaney Room 111 S. 3rd Street Dayton, WA 99328 If you are interested in covering these events, please RSVP to Ian Field (ian.field@mail.house.gov).
04.01.2016	Spokane, WA – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today announced staff-led April mobile office hours, which will be held across Eastern Washington this month. “It’s an honor to represent you in the People’s House, and while I’m working for you at the U.S. Capitol, my team is always on the ground here in Eastern Washington,” McMorris Rodgers said. “If you are having trouble with a federal agency or have ideas about our government, we’re here to listen and help.” Anyone who needs assistance with a federal agency or would like to voice an opinion on federal issues is encouraged to come by—no appointment necessary. Staff members will be ready and available to discuss resolving issues with federal agencies and federal government resources, including: Social Security, Internal Revenue Service (IRS), The Department of Veteran Affairs, Immigration, And others. As our representative in the People’s House, Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers seeks to make her office as accessible as possible to folks throughout Eastern Washington. Wednesday, April 13 Republic: Northern Inn, 852 S Clark Ave, 10:00 AM – 11:30 AM Thursday, April 21 Colfax: Whitman County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers, 400 N Main St, 10:00 AM – 11:30 AM Clarkston: SEWEDA Office, Conference Room, 845 Port Way, 1:00 PM – 2:30 PM
03.29.2016	Walla Walla, WA – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today released the following statement applauding Governor Inslee’s signing of the Washington State Achieving a Better Life Experience (ABLE) Act: “Having worked on the ABLE Act over the years in the U.S. House, I’m especially pleased to see our governor sign the Washington State ABLE Act into law. This important effort will help empower those with disabilities in Eastern Washington and across the state to save for college, retirement, and other future expenses — a real, critical step in helping people like my son, Cole, achieve their dreams.” Note: In 2014, McMorris Rodgers and a bipartisan group of lawmakers led the effort to pass the ABLE Act, which lets families who have a child with a disability save for their long-term care through 529-style savings accounts. The ABLE Act was a significant step forward and has been heralded as one of the most important pieces of disability legislation since the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). The ABLE Act was signed into federal law in early 2015. Recently, on March 17, 2016, Rep. McMorris Rodgers joined Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Bob Casey (D-PA) and Representatives Ander Crenshaw (R-FL), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), and Pete Sessions (R-TX) to introduce a package of bills aimed at enhancing the ABLE Act. The ABLE to Work Act builds on the success of the ABLE Act by making it possible for disabled people who work to save a portion of their income in an ABLE account without risking loss of benefits. These bills will also allow rollovers to and from 529 college savings plans as well as raise the age for eligibility from 26 to 46.
03.28.2016	Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) will host “Conversation with Cathy” town hall events throughout Eastern Washington next week. These events are open to anyone who wants to ask a question, and the Congresswoman looks forward to hearing your ideas. McMorris Rodgers will give an update on her work to expand opportunities and restore the voice of “We, the people” in our representative government. Media interested in covering these events, please RSVP to Ian Field (ian.field@mail.house.gov). Monday, April 4 Liberty Lake: 9:30 AM – 10:30 AM HUB Sports Center, 19619 E. Cataldo, Liberty Lake, WA 99016 Tuesday, April 5 Cusick: 11:00 AM – 12:00 PM Camas Center, 1821 N. LeClerc Road #1, Cusick, WA 99119 Colville: 4:30 PM – 5:30 PM The HUB Senior Center, 231 W. Elep Ave, Colville, WA 99114 Wednesday, April 6 Clarkston: 11:30 AM – 12:30 PM Walla Walla Community College – Clarkston Auditorium, 1470 Bridge Street, Clarkston, WA 99403 Dayton: 4:00 PM – 5:00 PM Dayton Memorial Library Delaney Room, 111 S. 3rd Street, Dayton, WA 99328
03.24.2016	Washington, DC – On March 29, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) will hold open media events in Walla Walla and College Place. Eastern Washington’s Congresswoman will meet with students at the recently established College Place High School and will honor Vietnam Veterans at an open house commemoration at the Walla Walla VA. If you are interested in covering this event, please RSVP to Ian Field (ian.field@mail.house.gov). Open Media Events for Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers: Tuesday, March 29 10:00 AM TOUR: College Place High School Location: 1755 S. College Ave College Place, WA 99324 Rep. McMorris Rodgers will tour the newly constructed high school and meet with students to hear about the school’s project-based learning environment and career-focused curriculum. 11:00 AM VISIT: Walla Walla VA Medical Center Vietnam Veterans Commemoration Open House Location: Outpatient Clinic, Bldg 143, 77 Wainwright Drive, Walla Walla 99362 Rep. McMorris Rodgers will attend the Vietnam Veterans Commemoration Open House at the Walla Walla VA Medical Center, and greet Veterans to honor their service.
03.22.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C – Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement applauding recent House-passed bills focused on making history for future generations of startups, community leaders, and positive disruptors: “What I believe as a lawmaker is what I believe as the mother of two young girls,” said McMorris Rodgers. “We should not be defined by where we come from, but empowered by what we can become. Our work here in the People’s House is a reminder that all issues are women’s issues and that we need to encourage women to pursue their passions and honor those who paved the way as trailblazers. “This week, I am especially proud of our efforts in the House to empower women entrepreneurs, particularly those in STEM fields, to be bold and to let their brilliance shine in historically male-dominated careers. This is all part of the agenda we are building to restore a confident America, where everyone — including women — can feel secure in our lives and our futures and be empowered to keep making history for years to come. “As we celebrate the accomplishments, we’re also reminded this week of the ongoing battles to pay our proper respects to women veterans. So today we joined the fight to honor the World War II Women Airforce Service Pilots (WASPs) by voting to overturn a recent decision by the Secretary of the Army to exclude them from inurnment at Arlington Cemetery.” NOTE: This week the House passed H.R. 4742, the Promoting Women in Entrepreneurship Act; H.R. 4755, the Inspiring the Next Space Innovators, Researchers, and Explorers (INSPIRE) Women Act; and H.R. 4336, the Women Airforce Service Pilot Arlington Inurnment Restoration Act.
03.22.2016	“Those Who Cherish Freedom Stand Together” WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), chair of the House Republican Conference, spoke about the terrorist attack in Brussels at a press conference on Capitol Hill. Cathy McMorris Rodgers remarks as delivered: “My heart breaks with the news coming out of Brussels this morning. It is yet another unspeakable act against innocent civilians. Certainly, our world grows more complex. The enemies we face are becoming more radical than ever. “The groups that seek to destroy us thrive on chaos. We’re not talking about “lone wolves” — these are fighters now embedded into Europe. What they lack in standing armies they make up for in ruthless and indiscriminate violence against innocent life — moms and dads, sons and daughters. “They want to see the world fractured, frightened, and divided. But one thing is for certain: When confronted with cowardly, irrational terrorists, those who cherish freedom stand together. “Here in America, these attacks are a reminder to us to be constantly vigilant — our most important role, our number one priority, is the safety and security of this country. But we’re also reminded of just how desperate the rest of the world is for true leadership, and a true commitment to destroying the groups that seek to harm the innocent.”
03.21.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), chair of the House Republican Conference, co-chair of the bipartisan Congressional Down Syndrome Caucus and mother to Cole, her eight-year-old son with Down Syndrome, released the following statement recognizing World Down Syndrome Day: “Being Cole’s mom has opened my eyes further to the disabilities community, and has given me a new perspective on my role as a legislator,” said McMorris Rodgers. “He is a daily reminder to me that every human life has potential and something unique to offer the world. “Today and every day we reaffirm the American commitment we’ve championed since our founding — that no matter your background or your walk of life, this country is a place where you are empowered to achieve a better life.” NOTE: McMorris Rodgers has long been a champion for people with disabilities. In 2014, she co-led the effort to pass the Achieving a Better Life Experience (ABLE) Act. Just last week, she joined a bipartisan coalition in introducing ABLE 2.0, a package of bills building on the success of the ABLE Act to empower those with disabilities to seek meaningful and competitive employment.
03.18.2016	Reps. McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) & DeFazio (D-OR) urge President Obama to discuss Columbia River Treaty with Canadian Prime Minster Trudeau WASHINGTON, D.C. – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) met with Canadian Members of Parliament this week to discuss important issues along the United States northwest border with Canada—border security and access, water and energy policy, and the sale and transportation of goods. “The strong friendship between the United States and Canada has benefited our region for years,” McMorris Rodgers said. “We must continue to work proactively to ensure this positive and mutually-beneficial relationship continues.” In particular, McMorris Rodgers raised the importance of the Columbia River Treaty. This agreement “plays an indispensable role in the livelihoods of those in the Pacific Northwest.” McMorris Rodgers and her Democrat colleague from Oregon, Peter DeFazio (OR-04) said in a letter to President Obama urging him raise the issue during the visit of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. “[The first cross-border water treaty in the world] serves as a framework for the mutual benefit of both countries, providing low-cost hydropower generation, flood control and economic growth.” Time is of the essence. If the Canadian Entitlement Return is not rebalanced by 2024, Pacific Northwest ratepayers will lose roughly $1 million every 2-3 days or about $150 million a year. The State Department must conclude its review process and initiate negotiations with Canada. Click here to read the bipartisan letter McMorris Rodgers and DeFazio sent President Obama. McMorris Rodgers and DeFazio co-chair the bipartisan Northwest Energy Caucus.
03.17.2016	Legislation builds on 2014’s successful ABLE Act which helps the disabled and their families save for their futures WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) joined Senators Richard Burr (R-NC) and Bob Casey (D-PA) and Representatives Ander Crenshaw (R-FL), Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), and Pete Sessions (R-TX) to introduce a package of bills aimed at enhancing the ABLE Act. The ABLE to Work Act builds on the success of the ABLE Act by making it possible for disabled people who work to save a portion of their income in an ABLE account without risking loss of benefits. These bills will also allow rollovers to and from 529 college savings plans as well as raise the age for eligibility from 26 to 46. In 2014, the bipartisan group of lawmakers led the effort to pass the Achieving a Better Life Experience (ABLE) Act, which lets families who have a child with a disability save for their long-term care through 529-style savings accounts. The ABLE Act was a significant step forward and has been heralded as one of the most important pieces of disability legislation since the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). “As the mother of a young son with Down Syndrome, I know the challenges families face preparing for their loved one’s future,” said Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers. “With this initiative, we are building on the success of the Americans with Disabilities Act and the ABLE Act to enable those with disabilities to seek meaningful and competitive employment opportunities without the fear of losing their benefits. Let’s help them achieve their dreams of being independent and contributing to society.” “The ability to support yourself through work is an essential element of the American dream,” said Senator Burr. “The ABLE to Work Act gives disabled Americans and their families better options to plan for the future. Many individuals with disabilities are able to work, but our current one-size-fits all system punishes those who do by making them ineligible for benefits. Work is about more than financial support; it’s about participating in society and building a sense of purpose. It is wrong to exclude the most vulnerable members of our community from the benefits of work. I am also proud to join with my colleagues to introduce legislation to improve the ABLE Act by allowing rollovers from 529 college savings plans as well as allowing individuals who become disabled after turning 26 to open and save in an ABLE account.” “This legislation will strengthen the ABLE Act and I’m pleased that we were able to assemble a bipartisan coalition to introduce these measures,” Senator Casey said. “The belief that undergirds the ABLE Act is that those with disabilities have a lot of ability. These measures will help families who have a child with a disability to put that child on a more secure financial footing.” Congressman Ander Crenshaw, Chairman of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government, said “When the ABLE Act became law-of-the-land on December 19, 2014, a brighter future opened to millions of Americans living with disabilities. Today, people with disabilities can use tax-free ABLE accounts to plan for future expenses without risking the loss of critical federal benefits. Now is the time to build on that historic achievement with additional, common-sense tax code revisions that promote self-sufficiency for an even greater number of individuals with disabilities. That’s independence worth fighting for: No one who is willing to work, save, and responsibly plan for their future should be held back by the U.S. tax code. Period.” “Passage of the ABLE Act over one year ago is leveling the playing field for people with disabilities by ensuring equal access to tax-free savings accounts. These resources help individuals with disabilities reach their full potential by providing a better way to save and plan for their future,” said Congressman Van Hollen. “After working hard to get the ABLE Act to President Obama’s desk, I’m proud to once again join Senators Casey and Burr and Representatives Crenshaw, McMorris Rodgers, and Sessions in an effort to expand access to ABLE accounts and give beneficiaries more flexibility– without the fear of losing needed Social Security and Medicaid benefits.” “The ABLE Act broke through the glass ceiling for thousands of individuals with disabilities by giving them the ability to plan and save for their futures,” said Congressman Sessions. “While the ABLE Act was a critical first step, today’s package will bolster our efforts and strengthen the law to ensure individuals with disabilities, like my son, Alex, have the opportunities they need and deserve to achieve a bigger, brighter future.” Since the passage of the ABLE Act in 2014, 34 states have enacted ABLE programs and legislation is pending in several more states. The ABLE to Work Act expands on the goals of the ABLE Act by encouraging work and self-sufficiency. The legislation allows individuals and their families to save more money in an ABLE account if the beneficiary works and earns income. Specifically, an ABLE beneficiary who earns income from a job could save up to the Federal Poverty Level, which is currently at $11,770. The bill will also allow ABLE beneficiaries to qualify for the existing Saver’s Credit when they put savings in. Text of the ABLE to Work Act is available here. The ABLE Financial Planning Act would allow families to rollover savings in a 529 college savings plan into an ABLE account. Many families save for a child’s college education by opening a 529 account, sometimes before their child is even born, only to learn later that their child has a severe disability like autism. In other cases, a child is in a tragic accident and becomes severely disabled. In such instances, these families have funds trapped in a 529 that they could use to help cover their child’s lifelong expenses. If they withdraw the funds for anything other than college expenses, they face taxes on their withdrawals. The ABLE Financial Planning Act would help these families by allowing them to rollover the funds in their 529 account into an ABLE account for their disabled child. Text of the ABLE Financial Planning Act is available here. The ABLE Age Adjustment Act will raise the age limit for ABLE accounts to age 46. Currently, individuals with a severe disability prior to the age of 26 are eligible to open an ABLE account. Many debilitating diseases and conditions can strike later in life, including multiple sclerosis, Lou Gehrig’s disease, or paralysis due to an accident. Increasing the age limit for ABLE accounts will allow more individuals to save in these accounts to help cover the costs of short, medium and long-term care. Text of the ABLE Age Adjustment Act available here.
03.17.2016	Washington, D.C. – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, praised Representative Will Hurd (R-TX), Chairman of the Oversight and Government Reform Committee’s subcommittee on Information Technology, for holding a hearing that highlighted the need for the VA to modernize its scheduling system. McMorris Rodgers’ bipartisan bill, H.R. 4352, the Faster Care for Veterans Act of 2016, requires the VA to use existing technology to better serve Veterans: “This is technology that is available to patients across the country—it’s just common sense to make it available to Veterans.” “If the VA is unable to fulfill the promise President Lincoln made to ‘care for him who shall have borne the battle,’ then we must encourage the VA to try something different, and equip them to succeed,” McMorris Rodgers said in a written statement. “Self-scheduling is only one example of the endless creative and innovative ideas at our disposal. The Faster Care for Veterans Act is about empowering veterans who have sacrificed so much in defense of our nation, sooner rather than later, in a cost effective manner.” On January 8, McMorris Rodgers and Democrat Seth Moulton (MA-06) introduced the Faster Care for Veterans Act of 2016 (H.R. 4352) to empower veterans while giving VA employees more tools to do their jobs effectively and efficiently. “Our veterans deserve the best health care in the world,” said Moulton. “Self-scheduling technologies have been widely successful in the private sector at reducing the number of missed or canceled appointments, saving our health system money, and creating a better experience for patients and doctors. This bipartisan bill would utilize existing technology to improve access to VA health care. We owe it to our veterans to provide access to high-quality care. If private patients have access to this successful technology, veterans should, too. I’m grateful to Congressman Hurd for his support and for scheduling a committee hearing for the bill.” Veterans continue to tell McMorris Rodgers that one of the biggest challenges they face at the VA is simply getting an appointment. Cathy McMorris Rodgers statement for the record: Thank you Chairman Hurd, and Ranking Member Kelly, for allowing me to participate in today’s hearing on this important topic. Without a doubt, we were all shocked and horrified when the news broke several years ago that some VA employees were manipulating wait times and keeping secret waiting lists for veterans seeking appointments with the VA. The result was that veterans who desperately needed care faced unacceptably long wait times, poor treatment, and failed customer service at VA facilities across the country. Several even died while waiting for appointments. But instead of steadily shorter wait times, the number of veterans waiting 30 days or more for medical care has increased – up 50 percent last year. That’s simply not acceptable. The solution will require a fundamental shift in the culture and day-to-day management at the VA. I’ve heard from a number of veterans in Washington State, and here’s what I can tell you: They want to be empowered – empowered to make their own health care decisions, while giving VA employees more tools to do their jobs effectively and efficiently. To help with this, Congressman Moulton and I have introduced H.R. 4352, the Faster Care for Veterans Act, which would require the VA to conduct a pilot program using existing, commercially-available online patient self-scheduling capability that allows patients to schedule, confirm, and modify appointments in real-time. That means veterans could schedule appointments 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, and even backfill open appointments that had been previously scheduled but then cancelled. For 15 years now, the VA has attempted to improve its scheduling processes. Despite millions of taxpayer dollars invested in these experiments, they essentially started over in 2010. Now, the VA plans to spend an additional $624 million over the next five years to develop a new scheduling system, the utility of which is unclear at best. If the VA is unable to fulfill President Lincoln’s promise to “care for him who shall have borne the battle,” then we must encourage the VA to try something different, and equip them to succeed. Self-scheduling is only one example of the endless creative and innovative ideas at our disposal. The Faster Care for Veterans Act is about empowering veterans who have sacrificed so much in defense of our nation, sooner rather than later, in a cost effective manner. This bill is pro-veteran and pro-transparency. With this bill, we are demonstrating to the VA that innovative technology — already being used in doctors’ offices across the country — can also work for them to: Cut back on the red tape; Stay within budget; and get our veterans the care they’ve earned and need. I want to thank Congressman Moulton for partnering with me on this effort, and Chairman Hurd for cosponsoring our bill. I look forward to hearing how and when the VA plans to bring its scheduling system into the 21st Century so that veterans get the care they need, when they need it. Thank you again, Mr. Chairman, for holding this hearing and allowing me to join you today. I yield back the balance of my time.
03.16.2016	Washington, D.C. – Eastern Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after President Obama announced his nominee for the Supreme Court: “The American people aren’t going to settle for business as usual in 2016,” said McMorris Rodgers. “They’re rightly frustrated by the fear of losing their voice, their power, in our system of government. As the body closest to the people, our representatives in the U.S. House and Senate were elected to serve as their voice. While the President has the right to nominate a candidate for the Supreme Court, the Senate has the equally important right to confirm or not confirm the nominee. “Any Supreme Court confirmation needs to be a thoughtful process, with full respect for the separation of powers outlined in the Constitution. That’s why I stand by the Senate in their decision on how to move forward with the confirmation process. It’s the people’s Supreme Court, and we should let them decide its direction.”
03.15.2016	Congolese government agrees to issue more than 200 exit permits to adopted children Children will finally be able to join their families, in their new homes WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, the Washington state congressional delegation urged Ambassador François Nkuna Balumuene of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) to ensure that resolution of all remaining adoption cases by the end of March be his government’s highest priority. The delegation, Sens. Patty Murray and Maria Cantwell and Reps. Jim McDermott, Adam Smith, Rick Larsen, Cathy McMorris Rodgers, Dave Reichert, Jaime Herrera Beutler, Denny Heck, Derek Kilmer, Suzan DelBene, and Dan Newhouse, expressed their appreciation to the Ambassador for the DRC’s decision to begin issuing exit permits once again to Congolese children who have been adopted by American parents. The Congolese government recently announced it would grant more than 200 exit permits. A number of Washington state residents were affected by the exit letter ban and are awaiting final approval to bring their children home to the United States. “The exit permits suspension, which has been in place since September 2013, has deeply affected the lives of our constituents, as well as hundreds of American families around the country,” the WA state delegation wrote. [The] “recent announcement that more than 200 exit permits would be issued is very welcome news for our adoptive families, as is the commitment to continue the review process until all cases have been resolved. ” In September 2013, the DRC suspended exit permits for adopted children, a devastating decision to many adoptive parents in Washington state and around the world. Although the children had been legally adopted under Congolese law and received U.S. visas, they were unable to join their families in the United States. Many Americans moved to the DRC to care for their adopted children causing significant personal and financial hardship for their families. The full letter can be found here.
03.15.2016	Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 3797, the Satisfying Energy Needs and Saving the Environment (SENSE) Act. “As we stand for proper stewardship of our earth, I have long pushed for a true all-of-the-above energy policy,” McMorris Rodgers said. “However, America’s job creators are facing a constant regulatory onslaught from the Obama administration’s EPA. “The EPA, the agency specifically designed to protect the environment, has become so disconnected from its mission that it’s standing in the way of a responsible, common sense, and innovative method to reduce pollution. Turning coal refuse into energy has obvious environmental benefits, but the compliance costs that come with the EPA’s one-size-fits-all approach to regulations puts this valuable program at risk. With today’s vote, I stood up for an industry responsible for removing more than 200 million tons of material and restoring polluted sites to their former beauty. “Putting local job creators back in the driver’s seat—where they can make the best decisions for themselves and their communities—is all part of the our bold, forward-looking agenda to build a more confident America.”
03.15.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House acted to condemn the mass atrocities of ISIS and Bashar al-Assad against Middle Eastern minorities and the Syrian people. “The United States is a symbol of hope and freedom for many around the world, and American leaders must clearly identify and condemn crimes against humanity wherever and whenever they happen. Sadly, the Obama administration has failed to do just that as ISIS and Bashar al-Assad continue to commit unspeakable mass atrocities against some of the world’s most vulnerable people. Christians and other ethnic and religious minorities in the Middle East face ISIS persecution and slaughter every single day. Meanwhile, Bashar al-Assad’s industrial-scale killing machine continues the systematic torture and execution his political opposition in regime prisons, mass starvation campaigns, barrel bombings, and chemical weapons attacks. He has killed hundreds of thousands of civilians and displaced more than 11 million – half of Syria’s population. “These barbaric acts have no place in modern civilization and American humanity is jeopardized when its leaders stay silent. It’s time we stop turning our backs on our brothers and sisters around the world, who are pleading for the United States and its allies to show leadership. Today, the People’s House spoke loudly and clearly for them, and now we call on the President to work with allies to, once and for all, put an end to these horrendous acts.” Note: This week, the Obama administration is likely to miss a congressionally-mandated March 17 deadline that requires a final decision on whether ISIS is perpetrating genocide. Additionally, the administration has a duty to determine whether or not the Assad regime is guilty of war crimes.
03.14.2016	Washington, D.C. – Today, Eastern Washington’s Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, introduced legislation to restore the “power of the purse” to the American people as outlined in Article I of the Constitution. The USA Act eliminates unauthorized spending — spending on government programs that hasn’t been authorized by the people’s representatives. “The Founding Fathers intended a government ‘deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed,”’ McMorris Rodgers said. “As we build a bold, forward-looking agenda, a top priority is to restore the voice of ‘We, the People.’ We hear the frustrations of families and individuals whose power to make the best decisions for themselves has been taken away by a government that thinks it knows best and isn’t being held accountable. “These frustrations are a symptom of the people losing their power to ensure every penny of taxpayer money is subject to citizens’ scrutiny and accountability. Too much of the government is currently on autopilot, and it’s time to challenge the status quo. “A big part of the problem is due to what people in Washington, D.C. call ‘unauthorized spending’ — spending on government programs that have not been authorized by the people’s representatives. This means that the American people are prevented from exercising their power of the purse. When unauthorized spending is stopped through the USA Act, it will reclaim power for every man, woman, and child in this country.” In a CNN report on reauthorization, by Jake Tapper, this was described as “Zombie” government programs. CLICK HERE to view this short zombies-inspired video released by McMorris Rodgers on Friday, March 11,2016. H.R. 4730, The Unauthorized Spending Accountability (USA) Act of 2016 puts all unauthorized programs on a pathway to sunset in 3 years and requires any new authorizations or reauthorizations to include a sunset clause. This means every government program will be routinely scrutinized and updated by the People’s representatives. The following representatives have cosponsored McMorris Rodgers’ legislation: Price, Rob Bishop (UT), Brat, Buck, Byrne, Cramer, Davis, Farenthold, Flores, Franks, Hudson, McClintock, Messer, Mullin, Olson, Palmer, Ribble, Wagner, Walker, and Westerman.
03.08.2016	House Republican Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) released the following statement in celebration of International Women’s Day. “Today and every day, as women reach new heights in every field, we celebrate the brilliance, ingenuity, and independent spirit of women trailblazers all around the world. When I look at my two daughters, I hope they remember the strength, determination, and struggles of the women who paved the way before them, and I hope their generation inspires others to strive for better and to make a positive difference. “In my lifetime, I have been fortunate to have the leadership of Jeannette Hayner, the courage of Jennifer Dunn, the faith of Elisabeth Elliot, and the indomitable spirit of Margaret Thatcher to guide and motivate me. They are just a handful of leaders throughout history who helped give voice to a voiceless gender and inspired generations of stronger, more empowered women. Now it’s our turn. “Sadly, despite the valuable leadership qualities women bring to the table, many women around the world are denied fundamental rights, such as the right to vote, the right to an education, the right to own property, and, in many cases, the right to life. So on this International Women’s Day, as we rejoice in the strides we’ve made in growing equality of opportunity, let us pledge to remain vigilant advocates for our neighbors, so we can create an inspiring legacy for future generations of women around the world.”
03.06.2016	Washington, D.C. — House Republican Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) released the following statement mourning the passing of former First Lady Nancy Reagan. “It’s been said that behind every great man stands an even greater woman. Nancy Reagan was the embodiment of this sentiment. While history books will recall the leadership of the late President Ronald Reagan, the shining city on a hill shined a little brighter with Mrs. Reagan by the President’s side. “As a young woman, I always looked up to the First Lady. She inspired girls like me to go after our dreams — and reminded us that feminism is the ability to live the life we choose. Decades later, I’ve never forgotten her words. I carry them with me every day. “She brought class, grit and charm to all she did, and was one of the most influential and consequential First Ladies of our lifetime. We could all learn from her example. As women and as leaders, it’s our time to carry her torch and inspire the next generation as she so inspired us. The nation mourns today this tremendous loss, but there is comfort knowing she is reunited with her beloved husband at last. May God bless her and her family at this time.”
03.04.2016	Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today announced staff-led March mobile office hours, which will be held across Eastern Washington throughout the month. “It’s an honor to represent you in the People’s House, and while I’m working for you in our nation’s Capitol, my team is always on the ground here in Eastern Washington,” McMorris Rodgers said. “If you are having trouble with a federal agency or have ideas about our government, we’re here to listen and help.” Anyone who needs assistance with a federal agency or would like to voice an opinion on federal issues is encouraged to come by—no appointment necessary. Staff members will be ready and available to discuss resolving issues with federal agencies and federal government resources, including: · Social Security, · Internal Revenue Service (IRS), · The Department of Veteran Affairs, · Immigration, · And others. As our representative in the People’s House, Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers seeks to make her office as accessible as possible to folks throughout Eastern Washington. March Mobile Offices Wednesday, March 9 Newport: Pend Oreille County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers, 625 W 4th St, 10:00 AM – 11:30 AM Davenport: Lincoln County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers, 450 Logan St, 2:00 PM – 3:30 PM Thursday, March 17 Dayton: Port of Columbia Office, Conference Room, 1 Port Way, 10:00 AM – 11:30 AM Pomeroy: Garfield County Courthouse, Commissioner Chambers, 789 Main St, 1:00 PM – 2:30 PM
03.02.2016	U.S. Representatives Don Beyer (D-VA), Dave Reichert (R-WA), Peter Welch (D-VA), and Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) introduced legislation today that would require the federal government to measure the outdoor recreation industry’s impact on the U.S. economy. The Outdoor Recreation’s Economic Contributions (REC) Act would direct the Department of Commerce’s Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) to assess the outdoor industry’s contribution to job creation and consumer spending. “Outdoor recreation is a cornerstone of the American experience and vital contributor to the economy,” said Rep. Don Beyer, between section hikes on the Appalachian Trail. “Measuring the outdoor industry’s economic impact will help guide policymakers’ decisions to strengthen national recreational policies. This knowledge will ultimately benefit Americans’ physical, environmental, and economic health.” “With breathtaking natural treasures like Lake Chelan and Mt. Rainier, Washington State attracts outdoor enthusiasts from around the country and the world. Through hiring tour guides, buying outdoor apparel, and visiting many of our parks, outdoor enthusiasts generate significant revenue for the outdoor recreation economy, especially in Washington,” said Rep. Reichert. “The Outdoor REC Act will give this industry the clarity it needs to continue to expand, create jobs, and better serve those of us who cherish the outdoors.” While the BEA does not currently measure the outdoor industry’s economic effects, independent estimates suggest that the industry may generate more than $600 billion in revenue. “Vermont is a state of extraordinary natural beauty that provides multiple opportunities year-round for residents and tourists alike to enjoy the great outdoors. Outdoor recreation is a boost to the bottom lines of small businesses across Vermont and a key driver of our economy,” Rep. Peter Welch said. “The ability to quantify these benefits is essential so we can better support this vital sector of our economy.” “Here in the Northwest, spending time outdoors in nature is a way of life. For many, it’s a big part of the reason we choose to live here, and it also is an economic driver,” Rep. McMorris Rodgers said. “In the west, there are 640 million acres of federal land. This land belongs to the people, and I believe it should be open to many types of activities — providing enjoyment and economic opportunity for local communities.” Nearly half of the U.S. population participates in outdoor recreation endeavors every year, contributing to an estimated 6.1 million American jobs and $80 billion in local, state, and federal taxes. “Outdoor Industry Association (OIA) and the thousands of manufacturers, retailers and service providers in the outdoor recreation industry, know about the hundreds of millions of dollars our industry contributes to the U.S. economy and the millions of jobs our businesses support,” said OIA Executive Director Amy Roberts. “We are encouraged that members of Congress are beginning to understand as well. We are grateful for the leadership of Congressman Beyer, Congressman Reichert, Congressman Welch, and Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers celebrate today’s introduction of the Recreation’s Economic Contributions (REC) Act in the House. With a bill in both the House and the Senate we have taken a big step forward in making sure that the federal government quantifies the economic importance of our industry and uses that data to inform the decisions that affect our businesses and the 142 million Americans who recreate outside each year.” “Outdoor recreation creates jobs and economic opportunity in every state and in every corner of the country. From product innovation and retail to travel and tourism, it’s estimated the outdoor sector supports over 6 million jobs and almost $650 billion in GDP,” said Eric Artz, REI’s chief operating officer. “That’s bigger than either the domestic pharmaceutical or automotive industries. What’s more, outdoor businesses promote healthy lifestyles. We need the U.S. government to track these contributions and appreciate the bipartisan leaders of the REC Act who are committed to recognizing outdoor recreation as a strong piece of our economy.” “Orvis is really excited to see the efforts around quantifying the economic benefit of outdoor recreation,” said Orvis’ Steve Hemkens, VP of Rod and Tackle and Orvis Adventures. “Given the fact that healthy ecosystems and access to our public lands are critical elements to our business success, we also firmly believe in creating stewards and advocates for healthy fish and wildlife habitats, access to our public lands, for a vision of commerce that is sustainable and will provide opportunities for future generations of outdoor enthusiasts and entrepreneurs.” Full text of the legislation can be found here.
03.01.2016	Eastern Washington’s Congresswoman, House Republican Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), U.S. Representative Kristi Noem (R-SD), and U.S. Representative Mimi Walters (R-CA) will kick off Women’s History Month by discussing House Republicans’ agenda for a more confident America in an online town hall with SheKnows Media on March 2 at 10:30 a.m. ET. The live online Town Hall will be livestreamed exclusively on SheKnows.com, BlogHer.com, and GOP.gov: “Women’s History Month is our opportunity to celebrate the incredible accomplishments of women throughout our history, and to recognize those who gave voice to a voiceless gender and inspired many generations,” said House Republican Chair McMorris Rodgers. “For moms and teachers, doctors and entrepreneurs across America, we care about achieving a better life our children’s generation. I can’t wait to talk to those who tune into the March 2 livestream about their ideas for our future, where every American — especially women — feel empowered to build a bright future.” Congresswoman Kristi Noem added, “The most lasting tribute we can pay this month is through our effort to make history for the next generation of women. We must remain focused on building a strong foundation on which future trailblazers can pursue their own dreams and keep making history. As House Republicans build an agenda to restore a confident America, I look forward to discussing solutions for the priorities women care about.” “This month, we celebrate the accomplishments of women throughout our history and seize the opportunity to keep making history for future generations,” said Congresswoman Mimi Walters. “With women starting businesses at an ever increasing rate, and graduating with bachelors, masters, and doctorate degrees at a higher rate than their peers — it’s the determination and innovation of women today that’s going to be the foundation of a more confident America. I am excited to hear ideas about how we can open more opportunities for all Americans.” “Our vast, predominantly female audience is passionate about so many issues that are shaping the 2016 election,” Ross Godar said. “Based on findings from SheKnows Media’s new study called #TheFWord, we know that border control to Affordable Care Act to same-sex marriage to equal pay by law are top of mind for women regardless of party affiliation. I am looking forward to moderating this Town Hall with three GOP powerhouses who will share their perspective on these issues, what the Republican Party is doing to resolve them, as well as shed light on what it’s like to be a female legislator.” The online Town Hall will be moderated by SheKnows and BlogHer Executive Editorial Director Julie Ross Godar. Questions asked of the SheKnows Media audience that were fielded February 26-29 online will be asked of the congresswomen. For more information, follow @CathyMcMorris, RepKristiNoem, and @RepMimiWalters and check out McMorris Rodgers’ BlogHer Op-Ed on Women’s History Month here. More information about SheKnows Media can be found at corporate.sheknows.com. 1 comScore, Media Metrix, Multiplatform Key Measures Report, January 2016, U.S. About SheKnows Media SheKnows Media is the number-one women’s lifestyle digital media company with 91 million unique visitors per month (comScore, Media Metrix, Multiplatform Key Measures Report, January 2016, U.S.) and 269 million social media fans and followers. The company operates a family of leading media properties that include SheKnows.com, BlogHer.com and StyleCaster.com. SheKnows Media also organizes the conference #BlogHer16: Experts Among Us, the largest annual celebration of women online content creators, social media influencers and brand executives, taking place in Los Angeles, August 4-6, 2016. With a mission of women inspiring women, SheKnows Media is revolutionizing the publishing industry by forging a new kind of model that seamlessly integrates users, editors and content creators onto a single platform designed to empower all women to discover, share and create. Whether it’s parenting or pop culture, fashion or food, DIY or décor, our award-winning editorial team, Experts, bloggers and social media influencers produce authentic and on-trend content every day. We dig deep to learn what makes our audience tick, revealing unexpected insights on women and digital media. Our robust, end-to-end suite of premium branded content and influencer marketing solutions generate more than 2 billion ad impressions per month (sources: DFP), allowing brands to distribute authentic content and integrated advertising at scale. SheKnows Media is based in New York and Scottsdale, Ariz., with offices in Los Angeles, Chicago and Redwood City, Calif. We also operate internationally in Canada, Australia and the United Kingdom. Media Contact Jenni Ottum SheKnows Media Jenni.Ottum@SheKnows.com 480.231.4887
02.29.2016	Today, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) voted to support federal research and development and stimulate private investment in advanced nuclear reactor technologies here in the United States. McMorris Rodgers released the following statement on passage of the of H.R. 4084, the Nuclear Energy Innovation Capabilities Act: “Researchers in Eastern Washington have made some of the most important breakthroughs in nuclear technology, and by increasing collaboration we can continue to make important advancements.” H.R. 4084 will benefit Eastern Washington researchers like those at the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory by allowing DOE to enable the private sector to construct and operate privately-funded reactor prototypes at DOE sites and leveraging DOE’s supercomputing infrastructure to accelerate nuclear energy research and development.
02.29.2016	Today, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) voted to increase the efficiency and effectiveness of FEMA disaster assistance programs so those who face disasters will receive assistance. McMorris Rodgers released the following statement on passage of the of H.R. 1471, the FEMA Disaster Assistance Reform Act of 2015: “When disaster strikes one of our communities, our Nation stands ready to help. While we continue to support these important operations, we should also enact reforms to ensure help is available for those in rural communities.” McMorris Rodgers is a cosponsor of H.R. 4243 the Individual Assistance Improvement Act, introduced by Rep. Derek Kilmer (D-WA-06), which requires crucial reforms to correct problems that unfairly exclude those in rural communities from receiving FEMA disaster assistance.
02.26.2016	Today, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) voted to ensure future generations have ample access to federal lands to hunt and fish. McMorris Rodgers released the following statement on passage of the of H.R. 2406, the Sportsmen’s Heritage and Recreational Enhancement (SHARE) Act of 2015: “In the Northwest, hunting and fishing is a way of life for many, and for generations this has occurred on federal lands. But, too often, Federal Agencies and their regulations impede, or prevent outright, hunting, fishing, and recreation. Bureaucrats in D.C. shouldn’t be allowed to reshape American culture—preventing something so deeply engrained in our heritage.” H.R. 2406 includes provisions that: require federal public land management officials to facilitate hunting, fishing, and recreational shooting on certain federal public land; prevent the National Park Service from prohibiting individuals from transporting bows and crossbows if certain requirements are met, and; reauthorize the Federal Land Transaction Facilitation Act to extend the authority provided to the Bureau of Land Management to sell federal land for ranching, community development, and other projects.
02.25.2016	Last week, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers was in Olympia to meet with state leaders and advance important priorities for Eastern Washington, like the future of Fairchild Air Force Base, services for Veterans, and the completion of Spokane’s North-South Freeway. At the Washington State Capitol, she spoke with state legislators about work underway in Congress to rein in one-size-fits-all regulations from bureaucrats in D.C. and restore power to the People. McMorris Rodgers speaks with Washington State Legislators ON EDUCATION: McMorris Rodgers highlighted the Every Student Succeeds Act, which puts students and parents back in the driver seat and rolls back broken bureaucratic mandates that emphasize paperwork first, the student second. The Wall Street Journal described it as “the largest devolution of federal control to the states in a quarter-century.” “We’re empowering State and local leaders to make the best decisions for students in their communities, rather than one-size-fits-all programs from Washington D.C,” McMorris Rodgers said. ON RESTORING THE PEOPLE’S VOICE: Speaking to members of the Washington State House, McMorris Rodgers talked about the importance of the “People’s House.” “The House of Representatives is, by design, the body closest to the people. We are the most accountable, and we must be the most transparent and responsive,” McMorris Rodgers said. “At the Federal level, I am leading an effort to rethink government from the top down, to restore representative government.” Before she was elected to Congress, McMorris Rodgers was the minority leader of the Washington State House. ON SERVING THE PEOPLE: As she returned to the place where she previously served, McMorris Rodgers honored those who mentored her: “When I come back, I am reminded that we all stand on the shoulders of giants—for me, people like Senator Bob Morton and Senator Scott Barr.” She also shared a word of encouragement for those currently serving: “I am also reminded, all of us who are in the battle right now often look back on our founding fathers and we think that they were a little different than us. But, you know what? They weren’t. They were just like us. They had challenges and struggles, and they were doing their part. I thank you for being here and doing your part.”
02.24.2016	Today, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) voted to empower tribes to better manage land in their tribal trusts. McMorris Rodgers released the following statement on passage of the bipartisan Indian Trust Asset Reform Act (H.R. 812): “Today, I voted to give tribes more freedom to use their trust land. It’s the tribes who should be able to decide how to use their native lands, not bureaucrats in D.C.” H.R. 812 authorizes tribes to negotiate on a voluntary basis with the Interior Secretary to manage their tribal trust assets in accordance with relevant federal treaties, statutes and court decisions. This will give more flexibility to the Colville, Kalispel, Spokane, and Umatilla tribes as well as many others throughout Washington State. McMorris Rodgers is a cosponsor of H.R. 812.
02.17.2016	Washington, D.C. – House Republican Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) released the following statement regarding the terrorist attack in Ankara, Turkey: “There were innocent lives lost today, and my heart aches for all who were victimized by this brutal and senseless attack. As the world grows more complex, the enemies we face become more radical than ever before. Few understand that reality more than the Turkish people, and the United States stands with them today, and every day, in the fight against terrorism.”
02.12.2016	Today, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers’ (WA-05) legislation, the Common Sense Nutrition Disclosure Act of 2015 (H.R. 2017), passed the full House with a vote of 266 – 144 – 1. It now moves on to the Senate for consideration. “The best ideas come from the people in towns big and small, where families, business owners and community leaders come together to find common sense solutions. Across the country, the American people are frustrated because they’ve been limited by the top-down, government-knows-best approach that we see over and over again. That frustration extends all the way to our local deli counters, grocery stores, and convenience markets, whose owners are being told what to do by the FDA in the form of an unworkable, 400-page menu labeling bill. It’s just another example of a federal agency disconnected from its mission. “We must ensure America’s job creators have the flexibility they need to grow their businesses, hire more employees, and serve their customers. That’s why I introduced this bill – because prudent, effective labeling standards don’t come in the form of one-size-fits-all rule set forth by unelected bureaucrats. I’m grateful for my colleagues on both sides of the aisle for their support in getting this bill through the House, and now I encourage the Senate to follow our lead before the FDA’s rule has an irreversible impact on America’s businesses.” NOTE: The Common Sense Nutrition Disclosure Act was introduced last year by Rep. McMorris Rodgers. The bill has bipartisan support, having passed out of the Energy and Commerce Committee in November with a vote of 36 – 12 – 1. Click here for further background information on H.R. 2017.
02.11.2016	WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Republican Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers today introduced a resolution that affirms Congress’s intent to restore authority and power to the American people “As House Republicans continue to build a bold, forward-looking agenda, we must ensure that the policies we support and promote are empowering the American people. Congress by its design is most direct voice of the people, responsible for protecting their interests and executing their will. For several decades, executive power that bypasses the legislative process has violated the separation of powers, but more importantly, has diminished the power of the American people. The American people are frustrated, and the best way to rebuild trust in Congress is to restore the power to the people through their elected representatives. This resolution is only the start. We are committed to reforming government to be more responsive and accountable to everyday Americans.”
02.09.2016	As part of her continued focus on improving care for our Veterans, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today voted to pass several bills that address concerns raised by Veterans in Eastern Washington. “Many Veterans come to my office with significant challenges related to the processing of their benefit claims and appeals,” McMorris Rodgers said. “We’re happy to help—but Veterans shouldn’t have to contact a Member of Congress to receive the benefits they have earned.” H.R. 3016 requires the VA to conduct outreach to Veterans and establish a toll-free number for Veterans so credit issues caused by a delayed payment of a claim for emergency services through a non-VA provider can be more easily resolved. And many provisions of H.R. 677 are designed to expedite the accurate processing of benefits claims and appeals and ensure the appropriate availability of benefits. Additionally, H.R. 3234 requires the VA to send rapid deployment teams to underperforming medical centers to address areas of needed improvement and establish remediation plans. “I have serious concerns with the way the VA runs its medical centers,” McMorris Rodgers said. “I regularly visit the VA medical centers in Eastern Washington and meet frequently with administrators and staff to provide feedback from Veterans and encourage them to make improvements.” Of the four major VA medical centers in Washington State, McMorris Rodgers’ represents two, the Mann-Grandstaff VA Medical Center in Spokane and the Jonathan M. Wainwright Memorial VA Medical Center in Walla Walla. The following bills, which will help Veterans navigate the VA system and improve access and quality of care, passed the U.S. House today: H.R. 3016, the Veterans Employment, Education, and Healthcare Improvement Act H.R. 3106, the Construction Reform Act of 2016 H.R. 2360, the Career-Ready Student Veterans Act of 2015 H.R. 677, the American Heroes COLA ACT of 2015 H.R. 3234, the VA Medical Center Recovery Act H.R. 2915, the Female Veteran Suicide Prevention Act Last week, McMorris Rodgers voted to pass H.R. 3700 the Housing Opportunity Through Modernization Act of 2016, which included provisions to help disabled Veterans and their families, ending the unfair Administration policy of counting the aid and attendance benefits for low-income, disabled Veterans as income. ###
02.04.2016	To help provide better opportunities for those in need and the organizations that serve in our communities, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) this week voted to improve housing programs through reforms to the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and Rural Housing Service. McMorris Rodgers released the following statement: “Housing programs are a part of our essential safety net — we need these programs to work effectively, so they embrace those facing challenges and empower them to get back on their feet. “This bill prioritizes people over bureaucracy by reforming outdated programs to save money and help the people who truly need it. This is what Representative Government should be doing: working together to solve problems facing the American people.” H.R. 3700 works to make it easier for those who need assistance to get it and reforms criteria to reduce redundant and burdensome protocols for community organizations who help those in need. To help disabled Veterans and their families, this bill includes language to end the unfair Administration policy of counting the aid and attendance benefits for low-income, disabled Veterans as income. H.R. 3700 the Housing Opportunity Through Modernization Act of 2016 passed the U.S. House on February 2 with unanimous support, 427-0.
02.02.2016	Today Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) voted to override the President’s veto of the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Act, the first broad Obamacare repeal to reach President Obama’s desk. McMorris Rodgers released the following statement: “Today, the People’s House is once again standing with the American people by overriding President Obama’s veto of the people’s will. With our votes, we are upholding our commitment to the American people to put patients and families first. “Going forward, this country has a choice. We can continue on a road paved with President Obama’s failed, top-down, government-knows-best health care legacy, or we can pursue a health care system in the future that returns critical decisions back to patients and doctors, cures and beats diseases, and protects the most vulnerable among us.” NOTE: President Obama vetoed the bicameral Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Act on January 8, 2016. More information on the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Act can be found here.
02.02.2016	Washington D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) voted to sanction Iranians who finance terrorism, violate human rights, or are involved in the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. The House passed the bipartisan H.R. 3662, the Iran Terror Finance Transparency Act, 246-181. McMorris Rodgers released the following statement: “As we work to build a bold, forward-looking agenda for a more confident America, national security is at the top of the list. Today, we acted to block sanction relief to those who finance terrorism and violate human rights, standing with the American people and our allies around the world. “I have repeatedly urged the Obama administration to secure a better deal with Iran — and not only has the administration failed to deliver, it also refuses to acknowledge the grave threats facing the world today, some of the worst created by Iran. The core mission and responsibility of the Commander in Chief is to keep Americans safe; but, as this administration acted prematurely in removing sanctions against Tehran, it gave the largest state sponsor of terrorism a green light to continue its destabilizing behavior. “If Iran wants sanctions relief, it should be required to forsake its destructive activities once and for all. It’s time to stop rewarding bad actors for their bad behavior, so Americans can feel secure in their lives and their futures.”
01.13.2016	After the House voted to disapprove of the Obama administration’s Waters of the United States (WOTUS) rule, a sweeping new EPA regulation with an estimated indirect cost of $465 million a year, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement: “WOTUS is a prime example of the failed top-down, government-knows-best policies we’ve come to expect from this administration. These regulations, created by unelected bureaucrats unaccountable to the American people, impact millions of hardworking rural Americans in Eastern Washington and across the United States. “Less than 24 hours after the President pledged to scale back regulations, the People’s House is putting him to the test. I voted to counteract the administration’s unilateral, harmful regulations. The federal government must return decision making to the communities and individuals that know best.” Just before she went to vote, McMorris Rodgers tweeted this video: Click to watch
01.12.2016	Washington, DC – Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after attending President Obama’s final State of the Union Address: “For eight years, I have sat in the House chamber for each of President Obama’s State of the Union addresses — listening to thousands of words and hearing countless well-crafted applause lines. But one thing remains the same: he thinks government comes first and the American people second. “The American people have a choice in 2016. It’s a choice between two futures: President Obama’s legacy — cemented in status-quo, one-size-fits-all policies — or a future driven by families, students, small businesses, and seniors in every corner of America who each have their individual power restored to pursue their own dreams. In the People’s House, Republicans are starting to build an agenda that’s for every American — produced by the their representatives. Ours is an agenda build from the bottom up, not from some place ‘on high.’ Our agenda will help us reach a future where people aren’t limited where they finish, because of where they start. This agenda is one that will make people’s lives brighter.”
01.08.2016	Legislation Calls on VA to Incorporate Commercially Available Self-Scheduling Technologies at VA medical facilities Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) and Congressman Seth Moulton (D-MA) today introduced H.R. 4352, the Faster Care for Veterans Act, a bill that requires the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) to commence a pilot program which incorporates commercially available self-scheduling technologies at VA medical facilities. “Our veterans should have the same options that people have in doctors’ offices across the country,” McMorris Rodgers said. “After hearing from a number of veterans in Eastern Washington, it’s clear that current systems at the VA are so archaic and cumbersome, the agency is unable to follow through on its responsibility to provide the care our veterans have earned.” “We must try something different. With this bill, we are demonstrating to the VA that innovative technology – already available to millions of patients – can work for them to get our veterans the care they’ve earned in a timely manner, cut back on red tape, and stay within budget. I appreciate Rep. Moulton’s support on this important legislation, and I look forward to working with my colleagues in the People’s House to see it through.” The Faster Care for Veterans Act is a direct response to news that broke nearly two years ago exposing unacceptable wait times, poor treatment, and failed customer service at VA facilities across the country. Instead of wait times coming down, in 2015 the number of veterans waiting 30 days or more for medical care increased by 50 percent. Additionally, a 2008 internal audit by the Inspector General of the Department of Veterans Affairs estimated that 18 percent of outpatient appointment slots went unfilled due to patient “no-shows” or because facility personnel did not refill the cancelled appointments. While the VA has adopted a scheduling program that attempts to address this issue, the VA’s system is too expensive, will take too long to implement, and does not guarantee a self-scheduling component. Upon enactment of the Faster Care for Veterans Act, the VA will be required to commence an 18-month pilot program that allows veterans to access an on-line self-scheduling technology – currently available in the private sector – to schedule and confirm medical appointments at VA medical facilities.
01.06.2016	Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed the Senate version of H.R. 3762, the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act. “The American people deserve a health care system that protects the most vulnerable and provides affordable access to care for all. Today, the People’s House took a critical step in securing that system by sending to the president’s desk a bill that repeals Obamacare and puts a hold on all taxpayer funding to Planned Parenthood. “In Eastern Washington, too many families, small businesses, and healthcare providers are suffering under the President’s broken healthcare law, and I call on the President to follow the will of the people by signing this legislation into law. Our aim is to provide the highest-quality healthcare – to the greatest number of people – at the lowest possible cost, but that’s not going to come from top-down policies in Washington, D.C.” McMorris Rodgers is a lead advocate and author of the bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act, which passed the House in 2015. It will help to modernize and personalize health care, encourage greater innovation, support research, and streamline the system to deliver better, faster treatments and cures to more patients.
01.05.2016	Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released this statement following President Obama’s executive action on firearms: “Americans ought to feel safe in their homes and communities, and our hearts break with each senseless act of violence. As a parent, these tragedies always hit close to home. “I believe the security and constitutional rights of the American people are not mutually exclusive. Actions that target law-abiding citizens jeopardize our constitutional foundation and threaten to distract from the roots of the problem: terrorists, criminals, and a broken mental health system. We will closely review the details of the President’s executive ‘guidance’ and continue to move forward commonsense reforms that reaffirm our commitment to the safety and the constitutional rights of every American.” McMorris Rodgers is a staunch advocate for reforms to our mental health system. As a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, she has jurisdiction over this issue.
12.18.2015	Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) praised Eastern Washington priorities in the consolidated appropriations bill to fund the federal government for the coming year. This bipartisan deal includes many initiatives McMorris Rodgers has led, including keeping communities safe from wildfires, stopping burdensome regulations, supporting rural counties, and investing in cures for diseases. On Forests: “Washington State experienced devastating fires in 2014 and 2015. For 2016, we secured the greatest investment in decades to fight fires and make our forests healthy,” McMorris Rodgers said. “I will continue to push for solutions to help firefighters and preserve healthier forests for generations to come.” Note: McMorris Rodgers is leading an effort to improve the way we manage forest health and protect rural communities from wildfires. Legislation she helped author passed the U.S. House this year. She has authored op-eds in The Spokesman-Review and The Seattle Times. On Cures: “Innovation and discovery should be accelerated; treatments should be quickly available; and we should be curing diseases here in the United States,” McMorris Rodgers said. “This agreement bolsters our investment in future cures and prioritizes cancer and Alzheimer’s research.” Note: This deal supplies additional resources to for the National Institute of Health (NIH) to cure cancer and Alzheimer’s disease. NIH funding is used by researchers at Washington State University and the University of Washington. McMorris Rodgers authored six major provisions of the bipartisan 21st Century Cures package that passed the House earlier this year. The agreement encourages the NIH to explore the molecular, cellular, and physiological mechanisms that predestine individuals born with a third copy of human chromosome 21 (trisomy 21) to either live with—or be protected from—a range of diseases that cause nearly 60 percent of deaths today in the U.S. The agreement requests that NIH submit a report within one year of enactment of this Act to the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate on the feasibility of a multi-year study of children and adults with trisomy 21. On Obamacare Regulations: “In their current form, Obamacare’s menu labeling regulations are fundamentally impractical and unnecessarily expensive,” McMorris Rodgers said. “While our bipartisan legislative solution continues to advance through Congress, I am pleased that this unworkable rule will be delayed at least one year.” Note: This deal delays by one year the flawed 400-page menu labeling rule from Obamacare. McMorris Rodgers authored bipartisan legislation to fix this regulation, it passed the House Energy and Commerce Committee in November. The deal also repeals broken Country of Origin Labeling (COOL) requirements that would hurt farmers and ranchers in Eastern Washington. On Security: “The men and women who serve in our military risk their lives to protect our freedom, and we must support them and their families,” McMorris Rodgers said. “I am honored to represent Fairchild Air Force Base and will continue doing everything I can to support the airmen, guard, and reserves who serve there.” Note: This deal pays our troops and provides them with the resources and equipment they need to protect our national security and keep Americans safe. Additionally, the KC-46 Tanker modernization project funding is on track. On 2016: “Under the new leadership of Speaker Ryan, we’ve continued our work to return power to every family, worker, parent, and student with meaningful reforms to education, energy, transportation, and issues of national security – taking the government off autopilot and paving the way for a productive 2016,” McMorris Rodgers said. “While our work is far from finished, we’ve opened up the process and made great strides in promoting and advancing the American people’s priorities through their elected representatives. In 2016, we will continue opening this country to the future and empowering every man, woman, and child to pursue their version of the American dream, regardless of their background or walk of life.”
12.18.2015	Rep. McMorris Rodgers in Spokane, Walla Walla, and Colville Washington, DC – Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) will hold open media events in Eastern Washington December 19-23. She will honor the retirement of Megan Clubb, CEO of Baker Boyer Bank, speak at the Spokane Valley Rotary Club, visit veterans at the Walla Walla rehab unit, and tour local charitable organizations who are helping those in need throughout Eastern Washington. If you are interested in covering the following events, please RSVP to Ian Field (ian.field@mail.house.gov). Open Media Events for Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers: Saturday, December 19 11:00 am Award Presentation & Remarks: Daughters of the American Revolution Special Awards Rep. McMorris Rodgers will give brief remarks and will present the Bronze Congressional Award for Youth, 2 National Society Daughters of the American Revolution Community Service and Historical Preservation Recognition Awards. Location: 2117 East North Crescent Ave Spokane, WA 99207-8400 Monday, December 21 3:30 pm Remarks: Megan Clubb Retirement Event In honor of her retirement, Rep. McMorris Rodgers will present a Congressional Record to Megan Clubb, CEO of Baker Boyer Bank. Location: Baker Boyer Bank 7 W Main Street Walla Walla, WA 99362 4:30 pm Visit & Tour: Walla Walla YWCA Rep. McMorris Rodgers will tour the YWCA facilities including domestic violence shelter for women and children. She will also meet with YWCA staff and board members to discuss community influence, local support, and future plans. Location: 213 South 1st Ave Walla Walla, WA 99362 Tuesday December 22 8:15 am Visit: Walla Walla Veterans Residential Rehab Unit Rep. McMorris Rodgers will visit Veterans to show support and offer appreciation to those seeking care and spending the holidays in the substance abuse and mental health residential unit. Location: 77 Wainwright Drive Walla Walla, WA 99362 12:00 pm Speaking: Spokane Valley Rotary Club Rep. McMorris Rodgers will give remarks and answer questions at the Spokane Valley Rotary Club meeting. Location: Darcy’s in the University City Mall 10502 E. Sprague Ave Spokane Valley, WA 99206 3:00 pm Speaking: Celebration for Sheila Stalp and Karen Dodson Rep. McMorris Rodgers will host an open house honoring the retirement of her congressional staff, Sheila Stalp and Karen Dodson. Location: The Hub 231 West Elep Ave Colville, WA 99114 Wednesday December 23 9:30 am Visit: Goodwill Supportive Services for Veterans Families (SSVF) Rep. McMorris Rodgers will visit SSVF, a housing stability program serving veterans who are homeless or at risk of becoming homeless. Goodwill partners with Volunteers of America and Transitions to provide these intensive services to veterans and their families in Spokane County, Stevens County, Pend Oreille County, Kootenai County, Ferry County, Lincoln County and Bonner County. SSVF assists over 400 veterans each year. Location: 130 E. 3rd Ave Spokane, WA 99202 10:45 am Visit: Christ Kitchen Rep. McMorris Rodgers will visit Christ Kitchen, a job-training project providing work, instruction, discipleship, support, and fellowship for women living in poverty in the Spokane area. Through the production and sales of gourmet dried food products and catered meals, this project enables women to learn to work, to become employable and, eventually, to support themselves and their families without reliance on government programs or destructive relationships. Location: 2410 N. Monroe St. Spokane, WA 99205 11:30 am Visit: Associated Industries Rep. McMorris Rodgers will visit Associated Industries (AI) for a discussion about health care plans for people in Eastern Washington. AI administers health plans for six industries in WA: business services, construction, health care, information technology, manufacturing and retail. 1200 companies participate in their plans—500 in Spokane. Location: 1206 N. Lincoln St. Spokane, WA 99201 1:45 pm Award Presentation: Hero of Main Street Rep. McMorris Rodgers will be presented the “Hero of Main Street” award by Rick O’Conner of Referee Photo and Mark Johnson of the Washington Retail Association. Location: The Spokane Club 1002 W Riverside Ave Spokane, WA 99201
12.17.2015	“In Eastern Washington, this means local farmers and manufacturers will have more certainty to invest in the property and equipment necessary to grow and expand.” Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) praised the bipartisan passage of the Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes (PATH) Act of 2015. It includes a suspension of the harmful medical device tax, and provisions like the Research and Development Credit and Section 179 expensing are made permanent. McMorris Rodgers released the following statement: “Today, the House took important steps in our mission to provide more certainty and opportunity for job creators and their families. By voting to make some of the most important parts of our tax code permanent, and incentivizing the development of cutting-edge technology here in America, businesses and manufacturers of all sizes will have more of the edge they need to grow and compete in a dynamic economy. In Eastern Washington, this means local farmers and manufacturers will have more certainty to invest in the property and equipment necessary to grow and expand. The PATH Act will help keep jobs and innovation here in America.”
12.15.2015	Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) announced former Stevens County Commissioner Malcolm Friedman will serve as her Northern Regional Representative, based in her Colville office. “Malcolm is leader in Northeastern Washington, and he brings a wealth of experience to this position,” McMorris Rodgers said. “I am excited to welcome him to my team as we continue to partner with local communities and individuals in moving forward important projects and priorities.” Malcolm Friedman grew up in the Colville grocery store his family built in 1956. He attended Colville schools and graduated from the University of Washington. After college, Friedman continued in the family grocery business, expanding into new locations. In 1997, he became the executive director of the Rural Information Technology Center, a nonprofit in Colville focused on expanding access to broadband internet in Northeastern Washington. In 2001, Friedman was elected to the Stevens County Board of Commissioners, and he served in that position until 2012. He has served on numerous boards and community organizations, including Mount Carmel Hospital Board, Rural Resources Community Action Board, Martin Hall Juvenile Facility Board, Tri-County Economic Development District Board, North East Washington Regional Support Network, North East Washington Health Systems, as well as the Colville Rotary Club and the Colville Food Bank. Friedman is married to his high school sweetheart, Jillian. They have two grown children and four grandchildren.
12.15.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) stood in support of H. Res. 536, a resolution to support freedom of the press in Latin America and the Caribbean. The bill condemns violations of press freedoms and violence against journalists, bloggers, and individuals exercising their right to freedom of speech. McMorris Rodgers released the following statement: “Freedom of the press is a pillar on which all free and prosperous societies are built. The persecution of those seeking free expression should not be tolerated. Regime hostility toward journalists in Cuba, Ecuador, and Mexico violates basic civil rights and the Inter-American democratic charter.” H. Res. 536 was adopted by the House with a 399 – 2 vote.
12.08.2015	Click to Play Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) voted to reform and strengthen the Visa Waver program and called on American leaders to take principled action to protect the safety and security of every person in this country. The House passed H.R. 158, the Visa Waiver Program Improvement Act of 2015, with overwhelming bipartisan support, 407-19. “America will always welcome foreign visitors,” McMorris Rodgers said. “But we cannot allow those who seek to do us harm to abuse our relationships with friendly nations. With the simple, bipartisan reforms to the visa-waiver program we passed today, we add additional safeguards that prevent potential threats from coming to America.” When asked about Donald Trump’s proposal to ban all Muslims from entering the country, McMorris Rodgers stood up for American values. “I agree with the statement made by Speaker Ryan,” McMorris Rodgers said. “[Trump’s] proposal does not reflect our values as Republicans or Americans. I believe very strongly in the importance of our Constitutional rights. In America, we celebrate freedom of religion and freedom to worship.” McMorris Rodgers also called for the President to articulate a clear plan to protect the United States. “We have an obligation to confront terrorist organizations before they threaten the American people,” McMorris Rodgers said. “The House will continue to take principled action while urging the President to adopt a comprehensive strategy to destroy ISIS.”
12.04.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) praised the inclusion of a fix to the crop insurance program in the conference report for H.R. 22. It passed the U.S. House with an overwhelming bipartisan majority, 359-65. McMorris Rodgers released the following statement: “There were problematic changes to the crop insurance program in the Bipartisan Budget Act we passed in October that would have hurt Eastern Washington’s farmers. Before I agreed to support the deal, I made certain these changes would be completely reversed in upcoming legislation. “I promised our farmers it would happen, and now it’s done.”
12.03.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) praised passage of the conference report for H.R. 22, the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, which passed the U.S. House with an overwhelming bipartisan majority, 359-65. “This kind of long term authorization is essential for projects like the North Spokane Corridor and Highway 12 in Walla Walla,” McMorris Rodgers said. “Our roads must be safe and well maintained; it is crucial for our economy and our Eastern Washington way of life.” This bill improves America’s transportation infrastructure, including roads, bridges, transit systems, and rail networks. In particular, it expands funding available for bridges in rural communities. McMorris Rodgers released the following statement: “Smart investment in our nation’s roads, bridges, and highways and the ability to keep goods moving safely and efficiently, is vital to the health and growth of our economy. When we develop or repair infrastructure today, it must be with a focus on tomorrow. This legislation emphasizes building roads and highways with current technology and the strength to hold for the next 10 years. By cutting red tape and bringing together local governments with private sector partners, this 21st Century plan will create ground-breaking improvements and benefit communities for years to come.”
12.03.2015	“We could double hydropower—and create hundreds of thousands of new jobs—without building a single new dam, simply by updating the technology in our existing infrastructure.” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) praised the passage of bipartisan legislation to modernize America’s energy system. H.R. 8 the North American Energy Security and Infrastructure Act passed the House, 249-174. H.R. 8 includes important provisions authored by McMorris Rodgers to modernize hydropower licensing, which is another step forward in McMorris Rodgers’ bipartisan effort to advance hydropower. It can take up to 10 years or longer to license a new hydropower project or relicense an existing facility. In comparison, it takes 18 months, on average, to license a natural gas facility. “Our changes will establish realistic, enforceable timelines, and prevent expensive and redundant studies,” McMorris Rodgers said. “This is very timely, because in the next 15 years over 500 hydropower plants will need to be reauthorized.” Hydropower is the largest source of renewable energy in the United States. It is clean, safe, reliable, renewable, and affordable. Studies show we could double hydropower without building a new dam. This legislation will make it easier to add power production capabilities to existing dams. In 2013, McMorris Rodgers introduced H.R. 267, the Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act, which passed Congress with unanimous support and was one of only 72 bills signed into law by President Obama that year. It facilitates the development of small hydropower and conduit projects, using emerging technologies that improve the capture of energy along irrigation canals, municipal water supply conduits, and other infrastructure. Click here to watch McMorris Rodgers’ statement during Energy & Commerce Committee markup on September 30.
12.02.2015	Click to View “Open doors for our children that unleash their talents and passions to prepare them for the best career possible” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) voted to put students first. The conference report for the Every Student Succeeds Act (S.1177) passed the House with strong bipartisan support, 359-64. McMorris Rodgers released the following statement: “Every child should have an equal opportunity to get a great education. Today, we finally sent a replacement for No Child Left Behind to the President’s desk that will open doors for our children that unleash their talents and passions to prepare them for the best future possible. “America is the land of opportunity. This is a country where no matter where you come from, no matter your walk of life, you can make your dreams come true. And often it starts with an education from great teachers at great schools. The bill we passed puts students first and rolls back broken bureaucratic mandates. “We’re empowering State and local leaders to make the best decisions for students in their communities, rather than one-size-fits-all programs from Washington D.C.”
12.01.2015	“I’m proud to be a part of what we are advancing this week—making government work better for those it was elected to represent.” Click to Play Republican Leadership Press Conference: December 1, 2015 Participants: Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-LA) Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) Conference Vice-Chair Lynn Jenkins (R-KS) Representative Bill Johnson (R-OH) Chair McMorris Rodgers, Remarks as Delivered: “I hope everyone had a great Thanksgiving with your family and friends. It gives us some time to reflect on the tremendous blessings of being an American and what this country has to offer. For me it’s a time to recommit here on Capitol Hill to ensuring that every person has the opportunity to fulfill their version of the American dream. “As we approach the week ahead there are a number of bills that are really important in that effort. Coming from the Pacific Northwest, I always like to highlight the important role that hydropower plays in meeting important energy needs in this country. Hydropower is clean, it’s renewable, it’s affordable, and it’s reliable. “We could double hydropower without building another dam in this country simply by encouraging investment, technology, and streamlining the permitting process. In addition to that we could create hundreds of thousands of jobs. “There are all kinds of commonsense, bipartisan solutions. It’s about unleashing Americans and American ingenuity. “I’m proud to be a part of what we are advancing this week—making government work better for those it was elected to represent.”
11.20.2015	“No child is unlovable, and National Adoption Day is a beautiful moment to remember that every child is a blessing and deserves a chance to be in a forever family.” Washington, D.C. – Tomorrow, November 21, is National Adoption Day, when thousands of adoptions across the country are finalized. There are more than 100,000 children in foster care in the United States that are eligible for adoption. Children in this situation face tremendous challenges. But while their challenges are great, our resolve – to advocate for them and find them forever families – is far greater. In the spirit of November being National Adoption Month, House Republicans took to Medium.com to share their own stories of adoption, celebrate those in their districts who have made a difference, and highlight the significant work Congress is doing to address the needs of America’s “forgotten youth.” Click here to view the full collection of posts. “There is no greater gift than family,” said House Republican Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA). “As we enter the holiday season and remind ourselves what we are thankful for, let’s also remember who. I’m thankful for the men and women in our conference and across the country who recognize the potential of our foster youth, have given a voice to the voiceless, and a forever family for children in need of one.” “The greatest privilege this job brings is the opportunity to champion those who feel otherwise forgotten,” said Congressman Trent Franks (R-AZ), an advisory board member of the Congressional Coalition on Adoption Institute. “No child is unlovable, and National Adoption Day is a beautiful moment to remember that every child is a blessing and deserves a chance to be in a forever family. Today and every day we commit to making this a reality for young people in America and around the world.” In addition to the National Adoption Month Medium publication, House Republicans shared their personal adoption stories in a heartfelt video. Click here to view. Featured on Medium and in the video are Representatives Cathy McMorris Rodgers of Washington, Diane Black of Tennessee, Ed Royce of California, Joe Wilson of South Carolina, Rodney Davis of Illinois, Markwayne Mullin and Steve Russell of Oklahoma, David Schweikert and Trent Franks of Arizona, Tim Huelskamp of Kansas, Reid Ribble of Wisconsin, and Kevin Brady of Texas.
11.19.2015	Click to View “ISIS must be dismantled and Assad removed, so Syrians can live safely in their homeland.” Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) voted to put safety first and urged the President to address the core of the crisis in Syria. H.R. 4038, the American Security Against Foreign Enemies (SAFE) Act of 2015 passed the House today with strong bipartisan support, 298-137. This bill was passed to keep the American people safe after the FBI and Department of Homeland Security told Congress that they do not currently have the necessary intelligence to properly vet refugees. “America has a long history of providing safe haven for many of the world’s most vulnerable refugees, yet we must ensure that we do not allow terrorists to exploit refugee resettlement to gain entry to the United States,” McMorris Rodgers said. “To protect the American people, this legislation will place a hold on any further resettlement until these determinations can be made. It stipulates that refugees from Iraq and Syria may only be admitted if the Department of Homeland Security, the Director of the FBI, and the Director of National Intelligence certify to Congress that the refugee is not a security threat to the American people.” In a speech on the House floor following passage of the SAFE Act, McMorris Rodgers called on the President to address the core of the crisis in Syria. “ISIS must be dismantled and Assad removed, so Syrians can live safely in their homeland,” McMorris Rodgers said. “The heartbreaking attacks in Paris are a reminder that the United States, working with our international partners, must provide the leadership and commitment necessary to destroy ISIS and halt Bashar al-Assad’s mass atrocities—the causes of the world’s most serious terrorist threat and the most significant refugee crisis since WWII.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers, remarks as delivered on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives: Mr. Speaker, I rise today because I am deeply concerned about the future of American leadership abroad. For nearly five years, this administration has defended a containment strategy, even as ISIS rapidly escalates. As Paris tragically demonstrates, containment as a strategy is as ineffective as it is morally bankrupt. It allowed for the development of the world’s largest humanitarian disaster since WWII, while placing us and our allies at grave risk. This refugee crisis is a direct response to Assad’s mass atrocities against Syrian civilians and the associated expansion of ISIS. I call on the President to choose and execute a comprehensive strategy that destroys ISIS, stops Assad’s reign of terror, and allows refugees to return home and rebuild their lives. It is time for real commitment and real courage from our Commander-in-Chief. The American people, and the world, are waiting. Thank you. I yield back.
11.18.2015	The heartbreaking attacks in Paris are a reminder that the United States, working with our international partners, must provide the leadership and commitment necessary to destroy ISIS and halt Bashar al-Assad’s mass atrocities—the causes of the world’s most serious terrorist threat and the most significant refugee crisis since WWII. America has a long history of providing safe haven for many of the world’s most vulnerable refugees. Yet, we must ensure that we do not allow terrorists to exploit refugee resettlement to gain entry to the United States. Our top priority must remain the safety of the American people. The FBI and Department of Homeland Security told Congress that they do not currently have the necessary intelligence to properly vet refugees from Syria. To protect the American people, I support legislation in the House to place a hold on any further resettlement until these determinations can be made. It stipulates that refugees from Iraq and Syria may only be admitted if the Department of Homeland Security, the Director of the FBI, and the Director of National Intelligence certify to Congress that the refugee is not a security threat to the American people. Ultimately, the Syrian refugee crisis cannot be solved through resettlement. Rather, America must lead a global coalition to address the core of this crisis: ISIS must be dismantled and Assad removed, so Syrians can live safely in their homeland. The first responsibility of the Federal Government is to keep the American people safe. This will continue to be my priority, and I will continue to urge the Administration to establish a broader and more effective strategy to destroy ISIS and solve the Syrian refugee crisis.
11.18.2015	Click to Play “This legislation is commonsense and provides access to calorie information in a practical, flexible, and simpler manner by clarifying – not significantly altering – complicated regulations.” Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05)’s legislation, H.R. 2017, the Common Sense Nutrition Disclosure Act, passed out of the Energy and Commerce Committee today with a vote of 36 – 12 – 1. It now awaits action on the House floor. A new 400-page menu labeling rule from the FDA is unworkable for many food vendors—including grocery stores, delis, and pizzerias. McMorris Rodgers’s bipartisan legislation clarifies the intent of the rule and uses technological innovations to provide flexibility in the way nutritional information is displayed. Prior to today’s vote, McMorris Rodgers spoke to the Committee on the importance of H.R. 2017. “In their current form, menu labeling regulations are fundamentally impractical and unnecessarily expensive,” said McMorris Rodgers in her remarks. “Compliance with this regulation is estimated to cost American businesses more than $1 billion and 500,000 hours of paperwork. This is time, energy, and financial resources that should be spent on creating jobs and building up the economy – not on paperwork. That’s why, with the input of stakeholders and my colleagues, I introduced H.R. 2017. This legislation is commonsense and provides access to calorie information in a practical, flexible, and simpler manner by clarifying – not significantly altering – complicated regulations.” Click here to view her remarks in their entirety. And click here for further background information on H.R. 2017.
11.17.2015	Click to Play “Working alongside our international partners, we must provide the leadership and the commitment necessary to destroy ISIS and halt Bashar al-Assad’s mass atrocities.” Republican Leadership Press Conference: November 17, 2015 Participants: Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-LA) Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) Vice Conference Chair Lynn Jenkins (R-KS) Representative Martha McSally (R-AZ) Chair McMorris Rodgers, Remarks as Delivered: “Last Friday the world witnessed another unspeakable act against civilization, and against the people of Paris. Our thoughts and prayers continue to be with the victims and their families. “On behalf of the American people and our allies, we must finally rise to the challenge. Working alongside our international partners, we must provide the leadership and the commitment necessary to destroy ISIS and halt Bashar al-Assad’s mass atrocities. “These are the causes of the world’s most serious terrorist threat, and the most significant refugee crisis since World War II. “It is time for a real commitment, and the courage and the resolve from our President. It is time for leadership. “We must be articulating that broader strategy to the nation and to our allies. Then we must actually follow through.”
11.10.2015	Click to Play Washington, DC – In advance of Veterans Day, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released a video tribute to America’s veterans. Featuring footage with veterans at the World War II and Vietnam War Memorials, the video shares McMorris Rodgers’s vision for a 21st Century Veterans Administration. VETERANS DAY 2015 On Veterans Day, we pay homage to the brave men and women who have valiantly defended our country. Eastern Washington is home to thousands of Veterans. And as their representative in the People’s House, I get to the see the best of our communities – the men and women who answered America’s call to freedom; and who defended us in our darkest hours. Our freedom comes at a great price, and we owe immeasurable gratitude to those who continue to defend it today. Right now, the Department of Veterans Affairs too often treats veterans more like commodities than heroes. Doors are locked when red carpet should be rolled out; and wait times to see doctors are months when it should be days. This dysfunction is centered on outdated systems and models built for a previous century. With more silicon and less concrete, we can open up the VA to put the power back in the hands of every man and woman who served. I am working on legislation that would enable any veteran to schedule their own medical appointments – using the internet or an app on your phone – similar to Uber, Lyft, or ZocDoc. Veterans need to have a system that works, so that when they need an appointment they can get one before it’s too late. The Memorials in Washington D.C. allow us to express our gratitude. Our brave men and women who have served in uniform who are risking their lives around the world to keep Americans safe deserve our respect and have earned our support. Today, as we honor our veterans, we are reminded that we live in the freest country in the world – where we are not defined by what divides us, but bound by what unites us. To our veterans and their families: thank you for your unwavering commitment to this country and for your service in America. It is because of you that we stand as the strongest, safest, and freest nation on this earth. Open Media Events for Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers on Veterans Day 2015: Wednesday, November 11 10:00 am Speaking: Veterans Day Ceremony Location: Spokane Veterans Memorial Arena 720 W Mallon Ave, Spokane, WA 99201 11:30 am Speaking: Illuminating Courage Memorial Dedication Location: Illuminating Courage Memorial Spokane Veterans Memorial Arena 720 W Mallon Ave, Spokane, WA 99201 If you are interested in covering these events, please RSVP to Ian Field (ian.field@mail.house.gov).
11.09.2015	SPOKANE, WA – Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) will hold open media events in Spokane November 11-13. She will honor veterans, visit local businesses and manufacturers, and speak at Rotary 21 and the Tri-State Wheat Growers Association meetings. If you are interested in covering the following events, please RSVP to Ian Field (ian.field@mail.house.gov) Open Media Events for Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers: Wednesday, November 11 10:00 am Speaking: Veterans Day Ceremony Location: Spokane Veterans Memorial Arena 720 W Mallon Ave, Spokane, WA 99201 11:30 am Speaking: Illuminating Courage Memorial Dedication Location: Illuminating Courage Memorial Spokane Veterans Memorial Arena 720 W Mallon Ave, Spokane, WA 99201 12:30 pm Speaking: Women in Energy Industries Event Location: Greater Spokane Incorporated (GSI) 801 W Riverside Ave #100 Spokane, WA 99201 Thursday, November 12 8:15 am Visit: YWCA Spokane Location: YWCA Spokane 930 N Monroe St Spokane, WA 99201 10:00 am Visit: Dry Fly Distillery Location: Dry Fly Distillery 103 East Trent Ave Spokane, WA 99202 11:00 am Visit: Family Home Care Location: Family Home Care 1716 North Union Road Spokane Valley, WA 99206 12:00 pm Speaking: Rotary Club #21 at the Spokane Club Location: The Spokane Club 1002 W Riverside Ave Spokane, WA 99201 1:45 pm Visit: Domino’s Store Location: Dominos 11510 East Sprague Avenue Spokane Valley, WA 99206 2:30 pm Visit: Peaks and Plains (Durable Medical Equipment supplier) Location: Peaks and Plains 13524 East Sprague Ave Spokane Valley, WA 99216 3:15 pm Visit: Next IT Location: Next IT 12809 East Mirabeau Parkway Spokane Valley, WA 99216 6:00 pm Speaking: Tri-State Wheat Growers Convention Location: Davenport Grand Hotel 10 South Post Street Spokane, WA 99201 Friday, November 13 8:00 am Visit: Inland Northwest Aerospace Coalition (INWAC) — Accra-Fab Tour Location: Accra-Fab 23201 East Appleway Avenue Liberty Lake, WA 99019 *Please RSVP to Ian Field (ian.field@mail.house.gov)*
11.05.2015	“Smart investment in our nation’s roads, bridges, and highways and the ability to keep goods moving safely and efficiently, is vital to the health and growth of our economy.” Washington, D.C. – Today Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) praised passage of the Surface Reauthorization and Reform Act of 2015. “This kind of long term authorization is essential for projects like the North Spokane Corridor and the Highway 12 project in Walla Walla,” McMorris Rodgers said. “Our roads must be safe and well maintained; it is crucial for our economy and our Eastern Washington way of life.” H.R. 3763 passed the U.S. House with an overwhelming bipartisan majority of 363-64. McMorris Rodgers released the following statement: “Smart investment in our nation’s roads, bridges, and highways and the ability to keep goods moving safely and efficiently, is vital to the health and growth of our economy. When we develop or repair infrastructure today, it must be with a focus on tomorrow. This legislation emphasizes building roads and highways with current technology and the strength to hold for the next 10 years. By cutting red tape and bringing together local governments with private sector partners, this 21st Century plan will create ground-breaking improvements and benefit communities for years to come.”
11.05.2015	After Hurricane Sandy, Congress directed FEMA to update criteria, but work remains unfinished Washington citizens denied Individual Assistance disaster aid past two years (Washington, D.C.) – Today, Sens. Patty Murray and Maria Cantwell, and Reps. Jim McDermott, Adam Smith, Rick Larsen, Cathy McMorris Rodgers, Dave Reichert, Jaime Herrera Beutler, Derek Kilmer, Suzan DelBene, Denny Heck, and Dan Newhouse, sent a letter to FEMA Administrator Craig Fugate, expressing concern over the slow pace of FEMA’s progress to update its criteria for Individual Assistance. After Hurricane Sandy, Congress passed legislation directing FEMA to review, update, and revise its process for how it determines whether assistance to individuals and households is approved; however, this process remains unfinished. For the past two years, FEMA has denied citizens in communities devastated by wildfires from receiving this particular type of disaster assistance. While updated criteria will not affect past events, the lawmakers are concerned that with wildfires only continuing to increase in severity, this unfinished business will affect Washington citizens’ ability to receive aid in the event of future disasters. In their letter to Administrator Fugate, the lawmakers wrote: “Despite cumulatively burning close to 1.4 million acres and destroying over 400 homes, FEMA denied Individual Assistance for both disasters. As a result, entire communities – many of them already dealing with stubbornly high unemployment rates and low median incomes– have been left to grapple with additional job losses and severe housing shortages without critical forms of Federal assistance… Like many of our constituents, we are frustrated by the glacial pace of this process, especially given the serious implications it has for disaster victims.” Entire text of the letter is below: November 5, 2015 Administrator W. Craig Fugate Federal Emergency Management Agency U.S. Department of Homeland Security 500 C Street SW Washington, DC 20472 Dear Administrator Fugate, We write concerning the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s (FEMA) ongoing Individual Assistance (IA) rulemaking process and its major implications for our home state of Washington. While we understand the rulemaking process must be thorough, we are concerned progress is moving far too slowly at a time when communities in our state are suffering the very real consequences of wildfires. As you are aware, the Sandy Recovery Improvement Act of 2013 (SRIA) directed FEMA, within a year of enactment, to “review, update, and revise through rulemaking the factors considered under section 206.48 of title 44, Code of Federal Regulations” to “provide more objective criteria for evaluating the need for assistance to individuals.” While FEMA has begun this process in compliance with SRIA, the Agency has failed to detail its current status beyond stating that a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking is anticipated “no earlier than 2014.” Given that they were last modified in 1999, FEMA’s IA criteria are long-overdue for an update and we are concerned that further delay may have real and negative implications for individuals recovering from declared disasters. Over the last two years, Washington has witnessed historic wildfire seasons, each receiving Major Disaster Declarations. Despite cumulatively burning close to 1.4 million acres and destroying over 400 homes, FEMA denied Individual Assistance for both disasters. As a result, entire communities – many of them already dealing with stubbornly high unemployment rates and low median incomes– have been left to grapple with additional job losses and severe housing shortages without critical forms of Federal assistance. What’s more, the wildfire threat only appears to be getting worse, as the scope and severity of wildfires have grown dramatically in recent years. In the 15 years preceding FEMA’s 1999 update of its IA rules, wildfires burned an average of 42 acres per fire; in the 15 years since, that figure has nearly doubled to an average of 82 acres per fire. FEMA cannot and should not allow this process to drag out longer than absolutely necessary, as it is critical that the Agency is able to incorporate these new realities into its existing criteria and help communities in need. Like many of our constituents, we are frustrated by the glacial pace of this process, especially given the serious implications it has for disaster victims. This is why we urge you to expedite this rulemaking process and request that you clarify as to when FEMA will publish a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking and when FEMA will adopt a Final Rule. As always, thank you for your efforts on behalf of the country and Washington state and we look forward to your response on this critical matter. Sincerely, Sen. Patty Murray Sen. Maria Cantwell Rep. Jim McDermott Rep. Adam Smith Rep. Rick Larsen Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers Rep. Dave Reichert Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler Rep. Derek Kilmer Rep. Suzan DelBene Rep. Denny Heck Rep. Dan Newhouse
11.04.2015	“We are not here today to debate whether or not restaurants should be listing caloric information. We are here today to debate if this specific, 400-page rule is workable. And it’s not.” Click To Play Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05)’s legislation, H.R. 2107, the Common Sense Nutrition Disclosure Act, passed the Energy and Commerce Committee Health Subcommittee today on a voice vote. It now moves on to the full committee. “It is impossible for certain types of food vendors to comply with the FDA’s new rules,” McMorris Rodgers said. These recently finalized menu labeling regulations are more than 400 pages long and, according to estimates, could cost American businesses more than $1 billion to comply and 500,000 hours of paperwork. The bipartisan legislation clarifies the intent of the regulations and uses technological innovations to provide flexibility in the way nutritional information is displayed. During Subcommittee markup yesterday, McMorris Rodgers offered opening remarks on the importance of H.R. 2107. Below are highlights from her statement: We are not here today to debate whether or not restaurants should be listing caloric information. We are here today to debate if this specific, 400-page rule is workable. And it’s not. Like many other regulations, good intentions don’t always add up to practical policy. This regulation tries a cookie cutter approach—treating grocers, convenience stores, and pizzerias, with endless combination possibilities, the same way as restaurants with constant, simpler menu items. Requiring pizza franchisees to post in their stores every potential topping combination—more than 34 million possible outcomes—when more than 90% of their orders take place over the phone or internet, just doesn’t make sense. That is why I introduced the bill we are marking up today. This commonsense legislation provides access to caloric information to consumers in a practical and flexible manner by clarifying, not significantly altering this complicated regulation. Click here to view her remarks in their entirety. And click here for further background information on H.R. 2107.
11.03.2015	“…when the power of the people – We the People – is returned, every man, woman, and child in this country will have a greater opportunity to pursue their version of the American Dream.” Click to Play Republican Leadership Press Conference: November 3, 2015 Participants: Speaker Paul Ryan (R-WI) Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-LA) Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA) Chair McMorris Rodgers, Remarks as Prepared for Delivery: “This week marks two significant moments for the House Republicans. “Yesterday marked five years since the Republicans won back control of the House. And of course last week we welcomed the leadership of our new Speaker, Paul Ryan. “The United States is the greatest experiment in self-governance the world has ever known. And as we move forward, we must ask ourselves: How do we make this place work more effectively on behalf of the American people? “It starts by rebuilding trust in our ability to do the People’s work. “With a judicial branch legislating from the bench, and an executive branch passing its own rules and regulations without a vote of the people, Americans have a right to be concerned. “And they are. “The House of Representatives is, by design, the body closest to the people. We are the most accountable, and we must be the most transparent. We need to rethink government from the top down, and restore the representative power of Congress. “Because when the power of the people – We the People – is returned, every man, woman, and child in this country will have a greater opportunity to pursue their version of the American Dream.”
10.29.2015	“This new beginning gives us a chance to deliver real results for every American.” Click to Play Washington, D.C. – Today Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) celebrated the election of Paul Ryan as Speaker of the U.S. House of Representatives. As Chair of the House Republican Conference, McMorris Rodgers nominated Ryan as the majority party’s candidate for Speaker. “Mister Speaker, today, in the People’s House, it gives me great pleasure to nominate the People’s Speaker,” McMorris Rodgers said. Click here to view her speech. She released the following statement: “I am confident Paul Ryan will provide the visionary leadership our Conference; this institution; and the entire country desperately need at this moment. We cannot settle for the way Washington, D.C. works. This new beginning gives us a chance to deliver real results for every American. “The House of Representatives is by design the closest to the people. We are the most accountable, and we must be the most transparent. “Paul understands that we need to rethink government and reestablish the rightful role of the People’s House. The demands on families, businesses, and institutions have changed, and now Congress and Washington, D.C. must change too. I look forward to working with Paul to transform the House and all of government’s outdated models. Top-down government programs threaten to limit the freedom and opportunity that made this country great. Now — more than ever — it’s essential that Congress works more effectively on behalf of the American people so they can pursue their own dreams.”
10.27.2015	“I will vote to support a significantly reformed Export-Import Bank as part of our strategy to keep Eastern Washington competitive and America secure.” Washington, D.C. – Today Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) voted to reauthorize and reform the Export-Import Bank. The House passed the bill with a bipartisan vote of 313-118. Here is the statement she released in advance of the vote, pledging her support: “I will vote to support a significantly reformed Export-Import Bank as part of our strategy to keep Eastern Washington competitive and America secure when it comes to the House floor for passage. Immediately eliminating this tool would put winemakers in Walla Walla; manufacturers in Spokane; and farmers across our region at a serious disadvantage by limiting their products from being sold around the world. “This New Deal era institution is far from perfect, so we should change it to fit our 21st Century marketplace. Although I would have preferred to address this through the normal committee process, the reforms in this bill protect taxpayers from corruption and cronyism while moving toward the elimination of government export-financing programs altogether. “
10.27.2015	“I’m proud of the work we’ve accomplished since taking the reins, and thankful for Speaker Boehner’s leadership in making it possible.” Click to Play Republican Leadership Press Conference: October 27, 2015 Participants: Speaker John Boehner (R-OH) Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-LA) Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) Chair McMorris Rodgers, Remarks as Prepared for Delivery: “Good morning, everyone. “Next week marks five years since the Republicans took control of the House, under the leadership of Speaker Boehner. After years of out-of-control spending and blatant disregard for budgets, the House Republicans made the country’s economic health a priority. “In those five years we enacted the first real entitlement reform in nearly two decades. “We cut spending by more than $2.1 trillion, which is the most significant spending reduction in modern history. And we passed the first 10-year House-Senate balanced budget plan since 2001. “I’m proud of the work we’ve accomplished since taking the reins, and thankful for Speaker Boehner’s leadership in making it possible. Later this week we will vote to elect our next Speaker. We will continue to make the American people’s priorities our priorities. “We are more determined than ever to expand opportunities, empower our innovators, and make the American dream an attainable goal for everyone in this country.”
10.23.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C.- House Republican Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R- WA) and House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (D- CA) will host a breast cancer awareness event to celebrate women who fought breast cancer. ABC News’ Cokie Roberts will be honored. PARTICIPANTS: House Republican Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi (R-CA) Cokie Roberts, ABC News Myra Biblowit, CEO, Breast Cancer Research Foundation Stacy Lewis, Chief Programs Officer of the Young Survival Coalition DATE: Wednesday, October 28, 2015 TIME: 3:00 PM LOCATION: U.S. Capitol HC-8
10.23.2015	“If we want to offer the best possible health care to the greatest number of people at the lowest possible cost, we need solutions that give Americans control over their health care decisions.” Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 3762, the Restoring Americans’ Healthcare Freedom Reconciliation Act: “Access to world-class care with 21st Century cures and treatments is possible, but it won’t come with top-down government-knows-best policies. If we want to offer the best possible health care to the greatest number of people at the lowest possible cost, we need solutions that give Americans control over their health care decisions.”
10.23.2015	“Slow and burdensome processes should not obstruct responsible projects.” Washington, D.C. – Today Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) praised the passage of H.R. 1937, the National Strategic and Critical Minerals Production Act of 2015. This bill requires the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and the Forest Service to simplify the process for obtaining permits to extract minerals on federal lands. Delays in the permitting of American mining projects wipe out high-paying jobs in rural communities. Communities in Northeastern Washington depend on these jobs. Rep. McMorris Rodgers released the following statement: “Minerals are key to agriculture, health care, technology, national defense, and almost every facet of our modern world. The federal government’s broken regulatory system drives mining operations into other countries—eliminating good-paying jobs and relaxing standards of the minerals extracted. Families in Eastern Washington communities like Republic, Metaline Falls, and Northport are hurt when jobs are jeopardized by bureaucratic dysfunction. “We should have systems in place that block bad projects and allow good projects to move forward. Slow and burdensome processes should not obstruct responsible projects that will put Americans back to work.” H.R. 1937 reduces lengthy timelines and delays while protecting important environmental standards.
10.23.2015	“The President must stop playing politics; support our troops; and keep America safe.” Washington, D.C. – Today Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) spoke on the House floor about President Obama’s decision to veto the bipartisan National Defense Authorization Act. Below are her remarks: “Defending the American people is the chief responsibility of our government, and it’s a constitutional obligation that the House and the Senate take seriously. “This week Congress put the National Defense Authorization Act on the President’s Desk. It’s an important example of how Congress should work together to get the job done for the American people. “This is bipartisan. We do it every year to fund our military. “For 53 years, Congresses passed, Presidents signed this legislation. “Later today, President Obama will veto. “My district is home to Fairchild Air Force base, and I know firsthand the importance of our defense funding. “The National Defense Authorization Act funds vital military operations and equipment. Military families rely on it for salaries, medical care, and transitional resources. “Our nation was built on service before self. We have an obligation—and the Commander-in-Chief has an obligation—to ensure military and defense remains our top priority. “Mr. Speaker, the President must stop playing politics; support our troops; and keep America safe.” Click here to view her speech on the House floor. Click here to view remarks McMorris Rodgers delivered at a press conference yesterday regarding the importance of this legislation for military families.
10.21.2015	“Caring for our troops and their families is the cornerstone of military readiness.” Click to Play Republican Leadership Press Conference: October 21, 2015 Participants: Speaker John Boehner (R-OH) Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA) Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-LA) Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) Vice Conference Chair Lynn Jenkins (R-KS) Chairman Mac Thornberry (R-TX) Chair McMorris Rodgers, Remarks As Prepared For Delivery: “This week the House and Senate sent our Defense Authorization bill to the President’s desk. “It is bipartisan. We do this every year to fund our military. “This legislation is essential to providing a strong national defense that keeps us safe, equips those serving in harm’s way, and supports their families here at home. “For the men and women at Fairchild Air Force Base in Eastern Washington and at other bases around the world, our priority should be to give our service members and their families the equipment and resources they need. “As a co-chair of the Military Families Caucus, I hear story after story of families struggling to pay the bills at the end of the month and juggling the demands of being a single parent while their spouse is serving elsewhere. “When someone joins the military, it’s not just a job — it’s a family commitment to our country. They all serve and make sacrifices for our country, and they have earned our support. “Military families rely on programs in the National Defense Authorization Act. It includes a pay raise for our military, funding for commissaries, flights for family to visit deployed service members, and access to urgent care. “Caring for our troops and their families is the cornerstone of military readiness. Our troops need to be focused on their mission, we should not make them worry about what’s happening to their families back at home. “We have an obligation — and the Commander-in-Chief has an obligation — to ensure military and defense remain our top priorities.”
10.21.2015	Yesterday the House unanimously passed H.R. 1428 Judicial Redress Act. House Republican Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) released the following statement: “I’m glad to see the House unanimously pass H.R. 1428 The Judicial Redress Act. It’s an important step towards helping rebuild the trust of citizens worldwide with the U.S. government and our technology companies. The European Union’s recent decision to invalidate the U.S.-E.U. Safe Harbor agreement exposes a clear lack of trust. The passage of this bill serves as a necessary first step in improving dialogue with the E.U, highlighting America’s commitment towards user privacy, and enhancing the ability for the U.S. technology sector to expand in Europe.”
10.21.2015	“In building a 21st Century health care system, we need a cost effective approach-one that is a win-win for everyone: patients, pharmacists, and health care providers—everyone who relies on the Medicare system.” Washington, D.C. – House Republican Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) questioned Jesse McCullough, the Rite Aid Corporation’s Director of Field Clinical Services, today during a House Energy and Commerce Committee Subcommittee on Health hearing “Examining the Medicare Part D Medication Therapy Management Program. ” Click here to view the exchange Regarding the program, McMorris Rodgers released the following statement: “We know that when patients do a better job adhering to their medications, they are healthier and happier—and so is the Medicare system. Unfortunately, Medicare can be difficult to navigate, tangling our seniors in red tape when it should be user-friendly. “In building a 21st Century health care system, we need a cost effective approach-one that is a win-win for everyone: patients, pharmacists, and health care providers—everyone who relies on the Medicare system. “To do this, I am working on legislation that will improve patient outcomes and reduce overall health care costs, especially among those who have chronic diseases like diabetes. “The first step is increasing access. Next, is testing out new models for helping seniors adhere to their meds–models that forward looking pharmacists and insurance plans have been working on for years. “Going forward, it is critical that we continue to gather input from pharmacies, insurance plans, patient groups, and pharmaceutical companies, because everyone has a role to play in keeping patients healthier and helping Medicare remain solvent. “In my role, I’m committed to bringing these issues to the forefront in Congress.”
10.15.2015	Washington, D.C. –House Republican Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) released the following statement in response to the recent spike in violence across Israel and the Palestinian territories: “Once again Israel is confronting terrorism from those who cannot let the Jewish people live in peace. This past month, eight Israelis have been killed in brutal terrorist attacks, with even innocent children falling victim to politically-motivated stabbings. “This terror against Israeli civilians must stop. It tears at the fragile bonds of civility that exist between Muslims, Christians, and Jews in Jerusalem, the holiest of cities. It serves no one. “Our country stands firmly by Israel and supports all its efforts to build a peaceful, modern society in Jerusalem and all of Israel. Our prayers go out to all the families who have suffered loss at the hands of senseless violence.”
10.14.2015	SPOKANE, WA –– Today, U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell (D-Wash.), ranking member of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee, and U.S. Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) convened a roundtable of local stakeholders in Spokane to discuss lessons learned from this summer’s wildland fires in Washington State. With the end of the worst wildfire seasons in Washington State history and more than 1 million acres burned, the senator and congresswoman discussed strategies for combating and preventing wildland fires in the bipartisan roundtable. Local community leaders, firefighters, first responders, elected officials, and business owners participated in the bipartisan roundtable. The discussion included ways to increase collaboration between county, state and federal agencies; the immediate needs of communities; how to improve the underlying health of forests; and long-term goals for fire preparation, prevention and suppression. “We want our citizens here in Eastern Washington to know we are all partners, working together to make sure that when the next fire season comes around, we are going to be better prepared to fight these fires,” Sen. Cantwell said. “We certainly want to stop fire borrowing, but we want to make sure we are doing the work in advance – the fuel reduction and modernizations that will help us be better prepared for the future.” “This summer was the one we feared. We experienced huge loss and damage across Eastern Washington, and we will be working for years to recover,” McMorris Rodgers said. “Unfortunately, 13 of the last 15 years have been the most extensive wildfires in our country’s history. We must act now to do all we can to prevent this from happening again next summer.”
10.13.2015	CLICK TO PLAY “We need positive disruption on Capitol Hill. We need to rethink the way that Congress does business.” Washington, D.C. – Today House Republican Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) sat down with Fortune Magazine’s Nina Easton during the annual Fortune Most Powerful Women Summit. The highest ranking Republican woman in Congress, McMorris Rodgers spoke of her role in leadership, the need for honest conversation within the party, and how she envisions Congress adapting to the changing environments both inside and outside its halls. Some highlights: “You have to be the right person at the right time… I really believe the best place for me to be right now is to play a role in building trust internally, and it starts with communication.” “I believe it is very important, first and foremost, that we figure out how to build the trust internally. …I am hopeful that through [the leadership elections] were are actually going to have those conversations on how we work more effectively internally, not just among Republicans, but with our Senate colleagues, with the Democrats, so that ultimately we can restore trust with every person in this country.” “A lot is still top-down. Most decisions are made by leadership or committee chairmen. But there is this desire by the Members to have more of a bottom-up approach and to really look at the processes and structure of Congress to change it in a way that empowers…2/3 of the House Republicans were elected within the past five years. They’ve come here to do big things. They would like to be contributors and to be involved in our vision and how to communicate to everybody in this country” “We need to be thinking about what is the Congress of tomorrow. How do we function in 2015? …The way Congress is currently structured, the rules that we have in place—that all needs to be looked at. That’s what I’m currently leading.” To view the interview in its entirety, click here.
10.13.2015	Washington, D.C. – House Republican Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) will speak at the Fortune Most Powerful Women Summit today at 1:00 PM EDT. The MPW Summit is the world’s premier annual gathering of preeminent women in business, along with select leaders in government, philanthropy, education, sports, and the arts. Other speakers include Mary Barra of General Motors, Fox News Anchor Megyn Kelly, and Gates Foundation CEO Susan Desmond-Hellmann. The theme for the 2015 gathering is “Leading with Purpose.” “This is a profound opportunity to hear and learn from leading women in a wide variety of industries,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Their courage, leadership, and vision show us that anything is possible. I’m honored to take part in this year’s summit.” Click here to learn more about the Summit. During the event, a livestream will be available here.
10.13.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Senator Maria Cantwell (WA) and Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) will host a joint roundtable discussion with a wide range of experts who were on the ground during recent fires. Across Eastern Washington communities were hit by the worst fire season on record. Cantwell and McMorris Rodgers will hear from elected leaders and first responders from cities and counties affected by these fires—from Asotin County to Ferry County—as well as business and community leaders involved in firefighting efforts. If you are interested in covering this event, please RSVP to Ian Field (ian.field@mail.house.gov) Wednesday, October 14 12:00 – 1:45pm FIRE ROUNDTABLE: Greater Spokane Incorporated 12:00pm: Roundtable Convenes 12:05pm: Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers Delivers Opening Remarks (5 minutes) 12:10pm: Senator Maria Cantwell Delivers Opening Remarks (5 minutes) 12:15pm: Informal Discussion Topics: Collaboration Between County/State/Federal Agencies Immediate Needs of our Communities Long-Term Goals Additional Questions and Comments 1:30pm: Media Availability 1:45pm: Roundtable concludes Location: Greater Spokane Incorporated Conference Room 801 W Riverside Ave #100, Spokane, WA 99201 *Please RSVP to Ian Field (ian.field@mail.house.gov)*
10.09.2015	(Washington, D.C.) – The federal delegation representing areas in Washington state impacted by this summer’s historic wildfires sent a letter to President Barack Obama urging him to grant Governor Jay Inslee’s request for federal disaster assistance. On Wednesday, Governor Inslee requested assistance for both wildfires and the massive windstorm in late August. The letter was sent by U.S. Senators Patty Murray (D-WA) and Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and U.S. Representatives Dave Reichert (WA-8), Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-5), Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-3), and Dan Newhouse (WA-4). In the letter, the members said, “We fully support Governor Inslee’s request for a major disaster declaration that includes hazard mitigation, public assistance, and individual assistance. The public assistance requested by Governor Inslee is vital to restoring public infrastructure damaged by the wildfires. Further, individual assistance with housing support, disaster crisis counseling, disaster unemployment, and other supports will help meet the needs of the families, business owners, and other community members who are struggling in the aftermath of this disaster. We therefore urge you to grant Governor Inslee’s request in its entirety and as soon as possible.” In August, members expressed support of Governor Inslee’s request for a federal emergency disaster declaration, which was granted by FEMA. However, with more than one million acres burned and 146 homes destroyed and another 476 damaged, more federal assistance is necessary to respond adequately to the affected communities. The full text of the letter is below: October 8, 2015 The Honorable Barack Obama President of the United States The White House 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, Northwest Washington, DC 20500 Dear Mr. President: We write to urge you to swiftly approve the federal major disaster declaration requested on October 7, 2015 by Washington Governor Jay Inslee. We are grateful for your quick approval on August 21, 2015, of Governor Inslee’s request for a federal emergency disaster declaration (FEMA-3372-EM). As the magnitude of these wildfires has grown, however, so too have the long-term personal and economic effects on small, rural communities in Washington state. The emergency declaration, while vital in supporting the immediate efforts to save lives and property, is inadequate to support the long-term needs of the region’s individual families and public entities. As you know, Washington state is experiencing a historically intense wildfire season. Wildfires burning in counties throughout Central and Eastern Washington have stretched our state’s wildfire-fighting resources thin and have further devastated communities still recovering from last year’s fires. The Okanogan Complex fire of 2015 was the largest wildfire in Washington state’s history, more than doubling the acres burned by the previous record fire, the Carlton Complex fire of 2014. Over $319 million has been spent fighting wildfires in Washington state since June 1, supporting 11,450 firefighting and support personnel and 1,569 Washington National Guard soldiers at peak activity. Taken together, wildfires in Washington state this season have burned over one million acres and destroyed 146 homes – 92 of which were uninsured – across 13 counties and four Federally-recognized tribes: Asotin, Chelan, Columbia, Douglas, Ferry, Garfield, Klickitat, Lincoln, Okanogan, Pend Oreille, Stevens, Whatcom, and Yakima Counties; and the Confederated Tribes of the Colville Reservation, the Kalispel Tribe of Indians, the Spokane Tribe of Indians, and the Confederated Tribes and Bands of the Yakama Nation. For the second year in a row, Okanogan County has been particularly hard hit by wildfire. Over 50 percent of the state’s total home loss was sustained by Okanogan County, which has historically been characterized by low housing vacancy rates and has been struggling to cope with the destruction of over 300 homes last year by wildfire. The Okanogan Complex and other wildfires have thrust a previously stressed region towards an increasingly dire housing situation. While local hotels are normally relied upon to address housing shortages triggered by disasters, the County’s ongoing and economically vital tourist season has significantly diminished the number of rooms available to displaced households. This is not a matter of affordability: there are simply no empty homes or rooms to accommodate displaced families. Federal assistance is needed immediately to confront this housing shortage before it grows into a crisis. The region’s public infrastructure has sustained enormous damage due to the wildfires. Wildfires this year have inflicted more than $42 million in Public Assistance-eligible damage across the affected 13 counties. In Okanogan and Pend Oreille Counties, Public Assistance burden per capita exceeds $500. The Chelan and Okanogan Public Utility Districts (PUDs) reported over 232 miles of power lines and fiber optic cable and 983 poles impacted by wildfire. At the fires’ peak, more than 15,500 customers in the PUDs service areas were without power due to fire damage. Three radio communications sites powered by Slide Ridge in Chelan County remain without power, are currently seeking temporary power solutions, and it may require up to two years to restore full functionality. Slide Ridge serves the United States Forest Service (USFS), the National Park Service, as well as passenger boat operators on Lake Chelan. Rebuilding these public utilities will take significant amounts of time and funding and federal assistance is seriously needed. We are proud that Washington state is home to a strong agricultural sector, with farmers, ranchers, and agriculture businesses located throughout our state. As of 2012, Okanogan County alone supported more than 1,440 farms and its production of apples, cherries, pears, forage, wheat, and cattle resulted in $287 million in sales. Of the estimated 41,000 Washingtonians living in Okanogan County, approximately 45 percent of the total workforce is tied to the agriculture sector. Thirty-five percent of Okanogan County’s 11,000 head of cattle were lost as wildfires swept through the area. An additional 12 percent are expected to be lost to starvation if adequate feeding solutions are not put into place, which would push aggregate cattle losses to $10.5 million. Furthermore, the regions’ fence line and grazing land has almost been completely destroyed for a second year in a row. The Washington Department of Natural Resources and the USFS estimate that they lost 95 and 80 percent of grazing land, respectively. With so much of the region’s workforce tied to the agricultural industry, the losses suffered have resulted in significant hardship for the local economy and residents of Central and Eastern Washington. Several Washington tribes are heavily dependent upon the natural resources of their reservations to support annual operating budgets and provide benefits and employment to tribal members. Timber resources are critically important and can take decades to reach economic viability. An estimated one-fifth of the timber resources on the Colville Reservation have been lost during the 2015 wildfire season, and the North Star and Tunk Block wildfires collectively burned more than 250,000 acres on the Colville Reservation. Many of these reservation communities are plagued by high unemployment and lack of local employment opportunities, and therefore natural resources provide both essential operating funds and gainful employment. The federal government’s tribal trust responsibility needs to be upheld as we work collaboratively to recover from this devastating wildfire season. We encourage you to consider all options to support the recovery of all communities in Central and Eastern Washington, including those on reservations. In recent weeks, we have heard from constituents throughout Central and Eastern Washington who have had their lives upended once more by wildfires. But we also have heard stories of bravery and generosity, of the grit and grace that have defined these communities for generations. The citizens of Central and Eastern Washington are fiercely independent people with a proud history of taking care of their own. Through their determination and hard work, these communities began to pull themselves out of the ashes of 2014’s fires. Today, not even a year removed, they face the harrowing prospect of starting over yet again. With this in mind, we find their calls for help all the more meaningful. We are grateful of the thousands of firefighters, volunteers, and service members from multiple local, state, and federal agencies who have responded heroically to this disaster. We are grateful for all those who have traveled from Colorado, Mississippi, Montana, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, and other jurisdictions to lend their assistance in firefighting. We are also deeply appreciative of the commitment of the many citizens, volunteers, charities, businesses, and local elected and appointed officials who have risen to serve their neighbors during this very difficult time. Lastly, we continue to mourn the three firefighters – Richard Wheeler, Andrew Zajac, and Tom Zbyszewski – who lost their lives combating the Twisp wildfire on August 19, 2015. Considering the disaster burden that the region and the state have experienced over the last 18 months, we feel that federal assistance is critical to the long-term health and safety of affected communities. Since March 2014, Washington state has had to grapple with two major disaster declarations, three emergency declarations, and 20 Fire Management Assistance Grants (FMAGs). Forty percent of FMAGs issued this year nationwide have been in response to Washington state wildfires. Concurrent with this major disaster request, Governor Inslee is requesting that a major disaster be declared for counties impacted by the worst summer windstorm in Washington state history, which occurred on August 29, 2015. While they have responded admirably, a disaster of this magnitude has exhausted the already-strained capacities of local communities and state agencies. Therefore, we fully support Governor Inslee’s request for a major disaster declaration that includes hazard mitigation, public assistance, and individual assistance. The public assistance requested by Governor Inslee is vital to restoring public infrastructure damaged by the wildfires. Further, individual assistance with housing support, disaster crisis counseling, disaster unemployment, and other supports will help meet the needs of the families, business owners, and other community members who are struggling in the aftermath of this disaster. We therefore urge you to grant Governor Inslee’s request in its entirety and as soon as possible. Thank you in advance for your prompt attention to this matter. Sincerely, Patty Murray Maria Cantwell United States Senator United States Senator Dave Reichert Cathy McMorris Rodgers Member of Congress Member of Congress Jaime Herrera Beutler Dan Newhouse Member of Congress Member of Congress
10.08.2015	CLICK TO PLAY “When we use excess forest products for biomass production, we reduce forest fire risk by keeping our lands healthier and we create a stable energy source.” Washington, D.C. – Today Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) praised the bipartisan vote in favor of H.R. 538, the Native American Energy Act. This legislation would enable Native Americans like the Confederated Tribes of the Colville Reservation, in Eastern Washington, to utilize biomass as a stable energy source. It also makes our region healthier and safer. “When we use excess forest products for biomass production, we reduce forest fire risk by keeping our lands healthier and we create a stable energy source,” McMorris Rodgers said. It passed the U.S. House with a vote of 254-173. McMorris Rodgers spoke in support on the House floor: “Emerging from another devastating wildfire season, the issue of forest health needs to be addressed. Fallen trees, overgrowth and general mismanagement have led to worsening fires each year. “When we use excess forest products for biomass production, we reduce forest fire risk by keeping our lands healthier and we create a stable energy source. “This legislation allows a pilot program to encourage greater biomass production on tribal forest land. “In my Eastern Washington district, it would provide the Confederated Tribes of the Colville Reservation—who already play an active role in forest management—new tools at their disposal to maintain the health of the adjacent forests, develop energy, and most importantly protect their homeland.”
10.01.2015	“Defending the American people is the chief responsibility of our government, and a constitutional obligation we in the House take seriously.” Washington, D.C. – Today Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) vote for the bicameral, bipartisan National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) Conference Report for FY16, which authorizes critical funding for Fairchild Air Force Base in Eastern Washington. She release the following statement: “Defending the American people is the chief responsibility of our government, and a constitutional obligation we in the House take seriously. Our servicemen and women put their lives on the line every day to protect us, so it is crucial we guarantee them the resources to allow them to do their jobs. We must continue to support them and their families. The bipartisan, bicameral NDAA Conference Report enables us to properly and effectively fund equipment, salaries, services and programs for our men and women in uniform while also promoting accountability.” For more on the NDAA Conference Report, click here.
09.30.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) fulfilled her promises to the people of Eastern Washington. This summer she repeatedly said, “we will pay whatever it costs to fight wildfires.” Today she voted to continue to make good on that promise. H.R. 719, Continuing Resolution for FY2016, provides $700 million in emergency funding to fight wildfires in Western states. When asked, Rep. McMorris Rodgers consistently says, “shutting down the government is not a responsible way to govern.” Her vote today reflects her continued commitment to work with her colleagues to build consensus and pursue responsible, 21st Century reforms to the way our government functions. “This summer was the one we had long feared,” McMorris Rodgers said. “Everyone in Eastern Washington felt the devastation of the record-breaking wildfires. We’ve seen unprecedented damage—homes burned, communities evacuated, and both civilians and firefighters tragically killed. The additional resources to fight wildfires keep the people of Eastern Washington safe.”
09.30.2015	CLICK TO PLAY: Increasing hydropower production will lower energy costs and help create thousands of jobs Washington, D.C. – Today Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) applauded final passage of H.R. 8, the North American Energy Security and Infrastructure Act of 2015, through the House Energy and Commerce Committee with a bipartisan vote of 32 to 20. Included in the bill was an amendment offered by Rep. McMorris Rodgers and her colleague Rep. Jerry McNerney (D-CA). This bipartisan amendment modernizes hydropower’s outdated licensing process. On average, it takes only 18 months to license a new natural gas facility, but it can take up to 10 years or longer to license a new hydropower project or relicense an existing facility. Hydropower is clean, safe, reliable, renewable, and affordable. Studies show we could double hydropower without building a new dam. This bill will make it easier to add power production capabilities to existing dams. Rep. McMorris Rodgers, prepared statement: “Thank you, Mr. Chairman for convening this important markup. I also want to thank my colleague from California, Mr. McNerney for working with me on this amendment. “Mr. Chairman, as we continue to advance an “all of the above” energy strategy, we must remember to include our nation’s largest, cleanest, most affordable renewable energy source: hydropower. “To see the potential and benefits of hydropower – look at my home state of Washington which gets more than 70% of its power from this clean and renewable source of energy. “However, far too often, the regulatory process for hydropower, is convoluted, costly, and cumbersome. “Our amendment seeks to correct this – reducing the burdens impeding development of a resource that provides flexibility and reliability to the electric grid, and expands our nation’s ability to rely on many other renewable energy resources. “Common-sense changes such as allowing FERC to develop a schedule in consultation with federal and state agencies and Tribes for hydropower licensing, and making the licensing study process more efficient will get this low-cost power to communities faster. “Unleashing American ingenuity to increase hydropower production will lower energy costs and help create thousands of jobs. “Thank you and I yield the balance of my time to colleague from California, Mr. McNerney.” Click here to read Rep. McMorris Rodgers’ Op-Ed in Irrigation Leader. Click here to learn more about Rep. McMorris Rodgers’ bipartisan hydropower law.
09.25.2015	Washington, D.C. – Today Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement following the announcement that John Boehner will resign as Speaker of the House: “John Boehner was the right man at the right time. Under his leadership the Republicans reached their strongest majority in 80 years, cut spending by $2.1 trillion, enacted the first major entitlement reform in nearly 20 years, and protected 99% of Americans from a permanent tax increase. “He is trustworthy and led in a fair, decisive way. “He is a great American who always supported me and visited Eastern Washington many times. I am grateful for his leadership and proud to call him a friend.”
09.24.2015	Washington, DC – Today Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) welcomed Catholic leaders from Spokane to the Capitol for the visit of Pope Francis. Following the visit, Rob McCann and Father Jose joined McMorris Rodgers to reflect on the Pope’s message. “The Pope’s message inspired me today—especially his encouragement to focus on creating opportunity for the next generation because that notion embodies the American spirit,” McMorris Rodgers said. “His message challenges us to carry on the spirit of many who went before us—defending liberty, protecting life, striving for justice, and caring for the oppressed.” “It’s a blessing to be part of the excitement of the city and the people,” Father Jose said. “It’s great to see how the Pope is showing us, with examples of Americans throughout history, the way to follow the American dream.” “You didn’t have to be Catholic to hear these words today,” McCann said. “In terms of treating people with dignity and respect, compassion and justice, these are not Catholic words, these are human words, these are Eastern Washington words—and they resonate with all of us.” Click To Play Rob McCann, Executive Director of Catholic Charities Spokane, joined the Congresswoman as her guest for His Holiness Pope Francis’ address to a joint session of Congress. Father Jose will give the welcome and invocation at a special event for guests of Members of Congress in the Cannon Caucus Room. This program was hosted by McMorris Rodgers, chair of the House Republican Conference, with her colleague Congressman Xavier Becerra, chair of the House Democratic Caucus. It featured a full simulcast of the Pope’s address. Rev. Jose Luis Millán is the pastor of St. Antony’s parish in Spokane, WA. From a very small town in Mexico, Father Jose also serves as pastor of Trinity Catholic School in Spokane and previously served as pastor of the Sacred Heart parish in Pullman, WA.
09.18.2015	Today Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) voted to protect women, children, and families. The House passed H.R. 3134, the Defund Planned Parenthood Act and H.R. 3504, the Born Alive Abortion Survivors Protection Act. As the House continues investigations into allegations of unethical and illegal practices at Planned Parenthood, H.R. 3134 puts a one year moratorium on funding for Planned Parenthood Federation of America and its affiliates and instead invests $235 million in Federally Qualified Health Centers in support of women’s health care. H.R. 3504 makes failure to provide standard medical care to children born alive during an abortion a federal crime and applies stronger penalties in cases where an overt act is taken to kill a baby who survives abortion. Rep. McMorris Rodgers released the following statement: “The undercover videos featuring senior level officials admitting to unethical and potentially illegal procedures should be of great concern to everyone. Anyone watching these videos can surely say—the American people deserve answers. “What kind of country are we if we think the actions revealed in these videos are acceptable? We must work towards better protections for women, children, and families. In addition to the vital legislation passed today, we have three powerful committees investigating the abortion practices described. Our work is just beginning. “America is the place where everyone is empowered to achieve a better life. And that begins with safety and security for everyone. Of course, those who would commit violent acts against Planned Parenthood are also clearly in the wrong. “Women’s health care should be available from providers who do not practice these horrendous acts. No woman should have to choose between getting the care she needs and supporting an organization that harvests baby organs.” Click here to view a video featuring abortion survivors and McMorris Rodgers talking about the ongoing investigations. Click here to learn more about what House Republicans are doing to hold Planned Parenthood accountable and find answers for the American people.
07.29.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Representatives Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), John Larson (CT-01), Tom Reed (NY-23), and Kurt Schrader (OR-05) introduced legislation to explore how Medicare can better treat the most complex patients. H.R. 3244, the Providing Innovative Care for Complex Cases Demonstration Act of 2015, provides complex patients with high-quality, highly-coordinated care. These plans provide far more flexibility and breadth of coverage than traditional Medicare plans and will lead to better health. It incentivizes collaboration among payers and providers and focuses on integrated approaches that improve quality and patient outcomes and experience. The result is higher quality care and lower costs. “This common sense, bipartisan legislation creates a coordinated care program for the sickest Medicare patients,” said McMorris Rodgers. “It will lead to better health outcomes for those patients and make the system more efficient overall.” “When it comes to healthcare, no one should slip through the cracks,” said Larson. “This bill will provide many of our most vulnerable Americans access to a state of the art plan to coordinate their care, provide access to best in class providers, and cover services not typically available through Medicare—all while reducing costs to our health care system. It’s crucial that we come together to make improvements to our healthcare system in a bipartisan manner. I commend Rep. McMorris Rodgers for her leadership, as well as my colleagues Rep. Schrader and Rep. Reed. This is an innovative approach to providing the best possible care for Medicare beneficiaries with chronic health conditions.” “I care about the quality of life for our senior citizens and this bill will help improve their lives in the long run,” said Reed. “As the cost of medical care continues to increase, it’s only fair that we begin looking for solutions to ensure the seniors who need care the most get the best possible, patient-centered care without cutting corners.” “We’ve seen in many instances that coordinated care programs provide patients with better care, while reducing costs,” said Schrader. “This innovative program will provide seniors with a new avenue to receive high quality care, tailored to their specific needs, at a lower cost, through the Medicare system. This bipartisan effort is a pragmatic approach to improving Medicare so it better serves beneficiaries.” In 2010, the costliest 10 percent of Medicare beneficiaries accounted for almost 60 percent of annual fee-for-service (FFS) spending. This population is more likely to have chronic conditions, such as chronic kidney disease, heart failure, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD), while more than half (51 percent) have five or more comorbid conditions. This population is also more likely to be dually eligible for both Medicare and Medicaid. Right now these beneficiaries are on their own to navigate the health care system. In the proposed program, each beneficiary would be served by an interdisciplinary care management team and a dedicated health professional to ensure they are getting the right care they need at the right time. In this program patients will have more benefits, lower out-of-pocket costs, high quality standards, enrollment and beneficiary protections, risk adjustment, and an integrated care model.
07.16.2015	“Life-changing innovations cannot help people when they’re collecting dust on a shelf or getting tangled in red tape.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) applauded the unanimous passage of the Steve Gleason Act, legislation she introduced to help ensure access to cutting-edge speech generation devices for those who need them to communicate with their loved ones and caregivers. The bill is named for and inspired by Spokane, Washington native and former NFL football star Steve Gleason, who was diagnosed with ALS in January 2011. “Life-changing innovations cannot help people when they’re collecting dust on a shelf or getting tangled in red tape. Because of Gail Gleason and Steve Gleason, thousands of Americans living with degenerative diseases can have the peace-of-mind today that their voices will continue to be heard. I’m proud to have steered this bill through Congress from start to finish, with the help of Majority Whip Scalise, Representative Paulsen, and Senator Vitter.” Background: In 2014, Gail Gleason and members of the ALS Foundation approached McMorris Rodgers about CMS regulatory changes that limited access to Speech Generation Devices, affecting anyone who uses the device and has Medicare. The problem was three-fold: 1) Local Medicare contractors stopped covering eye tracking accessory; 2) Placement of the device in capped rental category; and 3) Medicare denied patients the ability to ‘unlock’ their device using their own post-tax money. In September more than 200 Members of the House and Senate—Democrats and Republicans—sent a letter to CMS to investigate this arbitrary decision. After CMS addressed only one of the three concerns, McMorris Rodgers and Senator Vitter introduced the Steve Gleason Act as a legislative solution.
07.16.2015	“Until the VA starts serving veterans first and themselves second, our vision to establish a 21st Century VA that can deliver the best care in the world is only a hallucination.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Republican Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) released the following statement after the announcement of a scheduled vote on H.R. 1994, the VA Accountability Act, in the U.S. House of Representatives at the end of July. “The problems at the VA are deeply rooted at every level of this obsolete government model, and it’s failing veterans with long wait times, insufficient care, and unresponsive management. Our veterans sacrificed so much in defense to protect America. When they return home, they shouldn’t be stuck waiting in line for months or years just to see their doctor. VA officials at any level should be held accountable and, if necessary, be fired. Until the VA starts serving veterans first and themselves second, our vision to establish a 21st Century VA that can deliver the best care in the world is only a hallucination. I applaud the work of Chairman Jeff Miller and the Veterans Affairs Committee to make this vote possible.” Last year, when the abhorrent treatment of veterans surfaced, the House quickly passed H.R. 3230, the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 to help make veterans’ lives better, from economic opportunity to accountability within the VA. It was later signed into law.
07.15.2015	“The practices described are not only disturbing—they’re illegal.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Republican Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) released the following statement after video footage surfaced featuring Planned Parenthood’s Senior Director of Medical Services detailing atrocious abortion practices. “The admissions by Dr. Deborah Nucatola, Planned Parenthood’s Senior Director for Medical Services, in the recent undercover video go beyond a debate over pro-life vs. pro-choice. This is a matter of following the law. The practices described are not only disturbing—they’re illegal. “Women’s health is a priority, and it is unacceptable and unconscionable to exploit the need for health care for profit. As a mother, as a woman, and as an American, I applaud Chairman Upton for launching an investigation into Planned Parenthood’s practices and procedures.”
07.14.2015	“This is not reform. This is incentivizing bad behavior at all costs.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Republican Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) released the following statement after the Obama Administration announced it reached an agreement with Iran to end economic sanctions. “Based on what we know already, today’s announced agreement is a significant setback for global peace and security. “Let’s be clear – this deal creates a path for the world’s most prolific supporter of terrorism to obtain nuclear weapons, and empowers it to increase its support for violent extremists in the region and beyond, while continuing to threaten Israel with annihilation. Over two years of negotiation, the Administration has recklessly compromised away our values and leverage in exchange for Tehran’s continued obstruction and intransigence. “Given Tehran’s history of nuclear deception and circumvention, we have no reason to believe that Iran will comply, even with the deal’s flawed terms. Throughout the negotiations process, Iran has only increased, not decreased, its destructive influence in the region and beyond – and this deal rewards it with hundreds of billions of dollars of sanctions relief that it will surely use to further these activities. This is not reform. This is incentivizing bad behavior at all costs. “President Obama’s ‘reset’ with Russia ended in military aggression against Russia’s neighbors and this reset with Iran has already had the same result. “I will review every detail of this agreement closely, but I cannot support any agreement that threatens the safety of the American people, sells out our allies in the region, and places millions of innocent civilians in the region at risk.”
07.10.2015	“Innovation and discovery should be accelerated; treatments should be quickly available; and we should be curing diseases here in the United States.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) applauds the U.S. House of Representatives’ strong bipartisan vote on H.R. 6, the 21st Century Cures Act, which passed 344 – 77. McMorris Rodgers released the following statement: “The House today took advantage of a unique opportunity. Our overwhelmingly bipartisan coalition voted to offer hope for the millions of Americans suffering from currently incurable and untreatable diseases. Innovation and discovery should be accelerated; treatments should be quickly available; and we should be curing diseases here in the United States. This legislation helps achieve that. “Jenny Hoff from Spokane, Washington was diagnosed with ALS in 2006 at the age of 47. I had the privilege to meet Jenny earlier this year. For over 9 years she has lived valiantly, but there is currently no cure for this terrible disease. “Today we voted overwhelmingly to support Jenny and the millions of moms and dads, brothers and sisters, children and grandparents facing horrible diseases—they serve as powerful reminders of why finding cures is so important. “I’m proud to have authored six major provisions in the Cures package. These bills modernize HIPAA laws, accelerate the discovery of new cures, create research consortia to treat pediatric disorders, and bring our regulatory framework into the 21st century by embracing technologies that focus on patient-specific therapies and the potential for powerful indicators, like Biomarkers. “I urge the Senate to quickly pass this legislation.” Earlier this week, McMorris Rodgers delivered remarks at a press conference regarding 21st Century Cures. Click here to watch her remarks. To read her statement for the Congressional Record, click here.
07.10.2015	“We should take this data breach as seriously as enemy vessels off our coast or plane hijackers in the air.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – House Republican Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers issued the following statement in response to the Office of Personnel Management’s announcement that the theft of personal records at the agency included an additional 21 million records not previously reported: “This Administration has shown repeatedly that it does not know how to ensure the security of critical data and has little concern for the personal privacy that federal employees and all American deserve. The senior managers at OPM should be held accountable for their grave errors and stumbling response; and any replacement must know that a future breach will not be tolerated. “As this week’s computer ‘glitches’ reminded us, we are now living in an era where our virtual world is deeply intertwined with the real world. This theft exposes millions of Americans who have served their country to unnecessary personal and financial threats. We should take this data breach as seriously as enemy vessels off our coast or plane hijackers in the air. It demands the strongest possible response and has been met with bureaucratic inertia.”
07.08.2015	“Ultimately our goal should not just be to provide life-long treatment but to find life-saving cures. After all that is why we are here: to help people have better lives and reach their full potential.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) emphasized today, at a House Republican Leadership press conference, the importance of empowering the discovery of life-saving cures. “21st Century Cures offers hope to people across the country suffering from currently incurable and untreatable diseases,” McMorris Rodgers said. The 21st Century Cures Act increases NIH funding utilized by researchers at Washington State University and the University of Washington. “I’m proud to have authored six bills in the Cures package, McMorris Rodgers said. “These are bills that modernize HIPAA laws, accelerate the discovery of new cures, create research consortia to treat pediatric disorders, and bring our regulatory framework into the 21st century by embracing technologies that focus on patient-specific therapies.” Learn more here http://energycommerce.house.gov/cures. McMorris Rodgers continues her focus on finding solutions for people in Eastern Washington, like H.R. 1190, the Protecting Seniors’ Access to Medicare Act of 2015, which passed the House last month, and H.R. 2, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015—the most significant entitlement reform in almost two decades, it was signed into law in April. It keeps the promise, so people with Medicare coverage can see doctors and providers in their communities. Rep. McMorris Rodgers, Remarks as Prepared for Delivery: “Good morning! This week, the House will continue its work to remove barriers between Americans and life-changing innovation, whether it’s in the classroom or the doctor’s office. I’m particularly pleased that after more than a year of hard work, and listening to experts and patients from across the country, we will be voting on the bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act this week. Ultimately our goal should not be to provide life-long treatment but to find life-saving cures. 21st Century Cures offers hope to people across the country suffering from currently incurable and untreatable diseases. “In my Eastern Washington district, we recently mourned the death of a visionary leader—Washington State University President Elson Floyd, who lost his battle with colon cancer. He and millions of other parents, brothers and sisters, and kids lost to horrible diseases serve as powerful reminders of why finding cures is so important. We need to empower our scientists and researchers so we can discover, develop and deliver medical breakthroughs to cure diseases or people like Elson Floyd, or the mom with ALS, or the son with lupus. After all that is why we are here: to help people have better lives and reach their full potential, and this proactive initiative will have a life-changing effect on families in Washington State and across America.” Click to Play
06.29.2015	Washington, D.C. – This month Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) met with community faith leaders from the group Esperanza to discuss the importance of religious freedom, educational opportunities, and the future of immigration reform. Esperanza, a nationwide faith-based community group, focuses on empowering Hispanic communities through education, economic development and advocacy. “I am proud to join Esperanza in our shared commitment to empower the American people,” said McMorris Rodgers. “That’s what Esperanza does for members of America’s vibrant Hispanic community. Through their advocacy, they empower Hispanic-Americans to embrace opportunities and offer hope for a better life. Esperanza understands that economic opportunities begin in the classroom, and I am so thankful for all the work they have done to advocate for charter schools.” Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers also spoke at Esperanza’s annual conference in Washington, D.C.
06.22.2015	“He had the gift of making our dreams seem possible and turning our aspirations into reality.” SPOKANE, WA – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the passing of Washington State University President Elson Floyd: “It is with a very heavy heart that I remember the indelible legacy Elson Floyd has left behind. He was a visionary leader and passionate advocate for higher education, our region and state. “As president of Washington State University, he was beloved by students, faculty, and staff. I am grateful for his transformative vision and his impact on thousands of students. “His superlative leadership ignited WSU – with higher enrollment, more grants, a successful capital campaign, and by reaching out to successfully recruit a more diverse student body. He had the gift of making our dreams seem possible and turning our aspirations into reality. “My thoughts and prayers in this difficult time are with his wife, Carmento, and to his children, as well as the whole WSU ‘family’ who has lost a leader and father. Together, Washingtonians will carry on his legacy. “It has been my privilege to know him and call him my friend.”
06.18.2015	“I voted to assert Congress’s authority when negotiating America’s trade agreements and to ensure that your representatives have a seat at the table.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House voted on H.R. 2146, the Trade Priorities and Accountability Act of 2015. “Today I voted to assert Congress’s authority when negotiating America’s trade agreements and to ensure that your representatives have a seat at the table. Trade promotion authority reaffirms the House’s dedication to economic advancement, well-paying jobs, and transparency and accountability. I applaud Chairman Paul Ryan (R-WI)’s tireless work promoting free trade and his leadership in the effort to keep Eastern Washington and American producers and manufacturers competitive around the world.” H.R. 2146 passed in the House by a vote of 218 – 208.
06.17.2015	“This week we’re paving the way toward patient-centered health care reforms.” WASHINGTON, DC – Today, at a Republican leadership press conference, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) emphasized the 21st Century Cures Initiative, which will empower innovation in Eastern Washington—and across America—to find cures for thousands of diseases, prioritizing positive outcomes for patients. Rep. McMorris Rodgers, Remarks as Prepared for Delivery: “Good morning! As we advance important legislation this week to promote American medical innovation, I want to remind you of who we are fighting for. For the parents whose son was diagnosed with Autism; for the double amputee waiting for that new prosthetic; and for the 67-year old woman who just came home with breast cancer—this work is for them. So this week we’re paving the way toward patient-centered health care reforms—reforms that put people—not Washington, D.C. bureaucrats—in the drivers’ seats of their health care decisions. “Part of that effort is the bipartisan 21st Century Cures Initiative, which I’m proud to say will expedite the development and discovery of new treatments and cures for millions of people across this country. You know, of 7000 known diseases, we have discovered cures for only 500 of them. The work we’re doing here in Congress—to invest in research and development and advance real medical innovation right here at home—will change that. And it all starts by doing one thing: putting patients first. “Our votes this week will extend far beyond the House floor. They’ll reach doctors’ offices and hospital rooms and homes across America. That is how we will achieve real 21st-century health care reform—and I’m proud to help champion that effort.” Click to Play
06.17.2015	“We must be proactive in the fight against terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. We cannot afford to be only reactionary.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 2596, the Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016, which fully funds intelligence-related activities of the U.S. government, including the Department of Defense, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Drug Enforcement Agency. “Our 21st Century world has brought extraordinary advances, but with it come new, 21st Century threats. Terrorist organizations like al Qaeda and ISIS present new and ever-changing challenges to global security. In order to keep Eastern Washington safe, our intelligence community must be equipped with the resources they need to combat these threats. We must be proactive in the fight against terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. We cannot afford to be only reactionary. “Today I voted to fully fund the departments that carry out some of our most dangerous and difficult missions. This bill addresses the growing threats our country faces and gives our intelligence and surveillance forces the support they need. We can do more than ‘stop’ the threats against us — we can fight to ultimately destroy our adversaries.”
06.10.2015	“By spending more efficiently and prioritizing more effectively, this legislation will promote innovation in all of our nation’s transportation systems.” WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) voted today to invest in infrastructure for Eastern Washington. The House passed H.R. 2577, the Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies (THUD) Appropriations Act of 2016, which prioritizes spending for transportation as well as housing programs to assist our most vulnerable. “Today I voted to pave the way forward for a 21st-Century approach to America’s transportation and infrastructure system,” McMorris Rodgers said. “By spending more efficiently and prioritizing more effectively, this legislation will promote innovation in all of our nation’s transportation systems. We addressed critical safety issues and eliminated waste, fraud, and abuse that has existed in these agencies for far too long.” “By acting now, Federal and State agencies have time to plan for 2016 within the guidelines we have established—it is essential to representative government that Congress—not the bureaucrats—set these spending priorities,” Rep. McMorris Rodgers said. This bill provides appropriate funding for the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), the Federal Transit Administration (FTA), and the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA). It also provides funding for transportation programs like the TIGER grant program, which has been used successfully to build roads in Eastern Washington. “Our roads must be safe and well maintained; it is crucial for our economy and our Eastern Washington way of life,” McMorris Rodgers said. McMorris Rodgers continues to advocate for important Eastern Washington transportation projects, like the North Spokane Corridor and Highway 12 in Walla Walla. Transportation, Housing and Urban Development appropriations provide for the basic building blocks of our society. Under the House bill, funding will continue for the Community Development Block Grant formula program, which is important to Eastern Washington, and is funded at the same level as last year. Additionally, the bill provides $461 million for Housing for the Elderly, an increase of $41 million over fiscal year 2015, and $152 million for Housing for Persons with Disabilities, an increase of $17 million above the fiscal year 2015.
06.09.2015	“Veterans must be at the center of our solutions. They must be empowered. They must be treated with compassion. And they are our priority.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) met with Secretary of Veterans Affairs Robert McDonald today at her office on Capitol Hill. The Congresswoman addressed specific concerns regarding veterans’ access to care in Eastern Washington and proposed innovative ideas about how to successfully create a 21st-century Department of Veterans Affairs. As a longtime champion for Eastern Washington’s veterans, she urged Secretary McDonald to embrace new solutions to ensure that America’s veterans receive the care they need. “Secretary McDonald and I had a productive meeting today in which we discussed the very real problems facing Eastern Washington’s veterans—limited access to care, reduced hours at the VA Emergency Room in Spokane, and the upcoming closure of the VA clinic in Republic. I brought our veterans’ concerns and priorities straight to the Secretary—and we discussed numerous viable, long-term solutions that will help those who have served our country,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “I am encouraged by the Secretary’s sincere commitment to improving the lives of our veterans, and I look forward to working with him to enact meaningful reforms to an agency that has been outdated, inflexible, and mismanaged for far too long. We share an important belief: that veterans must be at the center of our solutions. They must be empowered. They must be treated with compassion. And they are our priority. We will work together to incorporate technologies like ZocDoc into the VA, expedite credentialing of medical professionals, expand physician recruitment, and fundamentally change the environment within the agency. That is how we can move forward with a 21st-century VA—one that is permanently committed to putting veterans first.”
06.09.2015	“From digital ad agencies in Spokane to wine growers in Walla Walla, the Internet is crucial in facilitating the ideas exchange so important to American economic growth and innovation.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 235, the Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act. “From digital ad agencies in Spokane to wine growers in Walla Walla, the Internet is crucial in facilitating the ideas exchange so important to American economic growth and innovation. Today’s passage of the Permanent Internet Tax Freedom Act (PITFA) will keep the Internet affordable for all Americans and ban Internet access taxes permanently. I encourage my colleagues in the Senate to act quickly on this legislation and help keep the Internet tax-free.”
06.06.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement this morning: Elson Floyd is a visionary and inspiring leader. As president of Washington State University and a tireless advocate for our region and state, he is beloved by students, faculty, and staff. We are grateful for his leadership and his impact on thousands of students — and our prayers are with him.
06.05.2015	“In this new Congress, what excites me most is how we can use technology to make government leaner, more transparent, and more accountable to Americans.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today delivered remarks at the Personal Democracy Forum (PDF) conference. She called for interacting with Congress to be more like using Uber than visiting the DMV. “Innovations in technology have the potential to revolutionize the way citizens interact,” McMorris Rodgers said, in a speech titled Imagining the Congress of the Future. “Technology can solve problems and improve lives by changing government’s approach to public policy.” Personal Democracy Forum, an annual gathering of civic technology enthusiasts and thought leaders in New York City, is organized by Personal Democracy Media. This year’s conference focused on “The Future of Civic Tech.” Highlights from McMorris Rodgers’s Remarks: “What we’re seeing is a 19th Century institution often using 20th Century technology to respond to 21st Century problems. We need to change that.” “People expect high-quality, on-demand deliverables in a world that is now digital, mobile, personal, digital, and virtual. This means tax reform shouldn’t take 20 years and answering a constituent letter shouldn’t take three weeks.” “I want to be a positive disruptor on Capitol Hill. I want to bring the innovative mentality of the Pacific Northwest and Silicon Valley to Washington and use it to change how government views outreach and problem solving.” “The same creative thinking that launched Uber and Lyft should be used to spur tax reform. The same innovation that leads to new diabetes and cancer drugs should be adopted when Congress envisions a 21st Century health care system.” Click here for full remarks and video of speech.
06.04.2015	“The Spokane area was Joshua’s home for his entire life, and it is with a heavy heart that the community that raised him and loves him now says their goodbyes. My prayers are with the Barron family, as they lay their son to rest.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) spoke today on the House floor in memory of Marine Lance Corporal Joshua Barron from Spokane Valley, Washington, delivering the following remarks: “I rise today in memory of Marine Lance Corporal Joshua Barron from Spokane Valley, Washington. Joshua, a tiltrotor crew chief, died on May 18 of injuries sustained during a training exercise. He was one of the 22 Marines aboard the Osprey that came down in Hawaii near Bellows Air Force Base. “Joshua was raised in Spokane Valley, and graduated from University High School in 2009. Those who knew him called him a superhero, an All-American Kid, and ‘the best our nation has to offer.’ During his service, he earned the National Defense Medal and Global War on Terrorism Medal. “The Spokane area was Joshua’s home for his entire life, and it is with a heavy heart that the community that raised him and loves him now says their goodbyes. “My prayers are with the Barron family, as they lay their son to rest this Friday. When he left for the Marines, he left his family a message that read ‘Because you’re worth it.’ This is testament to the selfless spirit of this fine young man. “Thank you for everything, Joshua. You’re worth it. Rest in peace.” Click to Play
06.04.2015	“Good intentions don’t always add up to practical policy.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) continues to advance solutions to correct overly burdensome Federal regulations. Her common sense solutions take advantage of technological innovations to provide different types of small businesses flexibility in the way they provide nutritional information to their customers. Today, McMorris Rodgers delivered the following statement to the House Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Health regarding her bill, H.R. 2017, the Common Sense Nutrition Disclosure Act of 2015. The legislation will clarify the intent of the FDA’s recently finalized menu labeling regulations, which are over 400 pages long. Estimates state that this regulation could cost American businesses more than $1 billion to comply and 500,000 hours of paperwork. McMorris Rodgers coauthored the legislation and is an advocate for small business owners who will be gravely impacted by overbearing and costly FDA regulations. Remarks, prepared for delivery: “Good morning. I’d like to thank Chairman Pitts and Chairman Upton for their attention to this important issue and Rep. Loretta Sanchez for co-leading this bill. Our joint efforts to clarify these regulations and represent the needs of America’s small business owners are critical. I’d also like to thank Chairman Upton and the nearly 40 other bipartisan Members who have thus far agreed to cosponsor. “H.R. 2017 is simple – clarify the intent of this nearly 400 page regulation so that businesses can comply with it and so that consumers have access to caloric information. This is why my staff and I have met with stakeholders and other Member offices on all sides of this issue more than 20 times this year and asked how we can improve this legislation. Something we heard again and again was that the 50% revenue trigger for what defines a restaurant is not fair. “I would like to ask unanimous consent to insert into the record – A letter from the National Restaurant Association to Congress on April 28th that only discusses the 50% revenue exemption in HR 2017 as concerning. I would like to say that these concerns have been heard – and I intend to fully address them as we move to committee markup. I hope that today we can move on and discuss the merits of this important legislation beyond this one point. “Like many other regulations, good intentions don’t always add up to practical policy. This regulation tries a cookie cutter approach to treat grocers and pizzerias like Capital Grille and Outback Steakhouse. I don’t think this is workable or affordable – estimates state that this regulation could cost American businesses more than $1 billion to comply and 500,000 hours of paperwork. Requiring Domino’s franchisees to post in their stores every potential topping combination – more than 34 million possible outcomes – when more than 90% of their orders take place over the phone or internet – just doesn’t make sense. “This is commonsense legislation that provides access to caloric information in a practical and flexible manner by clarifying, not significantly altering, this complicated regulation. We have been requesting comments from stakeholders since January and have heard several on the revenue trigger, which we have agreed to address – I hope that we can now move on to the next stop of the regular order process. This bill is ready to move, Mr. Chairman.”
06.03.2015	“Today, I voted to ensure our federal law enforcement agencies and counterterrorism programs are fully funded – so Eastern Washington families remain safe.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 2578, the Commerce, Justice and Science Appropriations Bill of Fiscal Year 2016. This appropriations bill fully funds the Department of Justice, including the FBI, federal law enforcement activities, and drug abuse programs with $27.5 billion. This bill also fosters American innovation with investments in science and research programs, and fully funds the Department of Commerce. “The appropriations process gives Congress the ‘power of the purse.’ It means we can hold the Obama Administration accountable and ensure American taxpayer dollars are being used efficiently and appropriately. Yet while we hold the strings, the men and women we represent tell us where to tighten. Today, I voted to ensure our federal law enforcement agencies and counterterrorism programs are fully funded – so Eastern Washington families remain safe. We invested in the future by funding science and research programs that will strengthen our economy and make us innovative leaders around the world. I thank Chairman Hal Rogers (R-KY) for an effective appropriations process that is both representative and respectful of taxpayer dollars.”
06.02.2015	“Today we are that much closer to seeing the bipartisan Steve Gleason Act become a reality – a reality that means a better life for thousands of families around our country.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today praised the passage of S. 984, the Steve Gleason Act by the House Committee on Ways and Means. Named after Spokane native Steve Gleason, the Steve Gleason Act would ensure that patients can have access to speech generating devices that allow thousands of Americans previously unable to use communication tools like email and text messages. This legislation also reverses the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services capped rental policies, and ensures eye tracking technology and gaze interaction accessories are covered under Medicare for ALS patients. For patients who are severely disabled, often confined to wheelchairs, these innovations are critical. Similar equipment is used by Steve Gleason, former professional football player with the New Orleans Saints. Rep. McMorris Rodgers released the following statement today: “Today we are that much closer to seeing the bipartisan Steve Gleason Act become a reality – a reality that means a better life for thousands of families in Eastern Washington and around our country. The ability to use these devices for not only speaking, but also for accessing email and text, allows patients to communicate with loved ones and doctors in a way they previously could not. The Steve Gleason Act proactively undertakes innovative eye tracking alternatives and speech-generating devices for those who can no longer speak or type, and addresses the placement of these devices under the ‘capped rental’ category. This common-sense legislation offers support to those who have already been challenged by so much. I remain committed to bringing the Steve Gleason Act to a vote in the House – and I will continue to champion the medical technology and scientific innovation that will save millions of lives.”
06.02.2015	“This week we’re voting on legislation that keeps our economy moving, our communities safe, and our federal government accountable to priorities of the American people.” WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) spoke at a Republican leadership press conference today – highlighting her week in Spokane visiting with small business owners, veterans and VA hospital administrators, young professionals, and Spokane startup entrepreneurs. This week, as the House votes on Appropriation bills, McMorris Rodgers highlighted the importance of the appropriations process, which she said leads to “a government that is more accountable, more transparent, and more open.” McMorris Rodgers also welcomed her colleague from the Washington State delegation, Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08), to highlight law enforcement provisions in the Appropriations bill before Congress this week. Rep. McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Remarks as Prepared for Delivery: “Good morning – I hope everyone enjoyed their Memorial Day week! For me, it was great to be home in Eastern Washington, where I had the opportunity to talk with many of our veterans, some thriving small business employees, and a few really impressive tech start-up entrepreneurs that are transforming the Pacific Northwest. It reminded me that the greatest transformations in this country all start with people. And it begins by empowering them. “That’s why this week we’re voting on legislation that keeps our economy moving, our communities safe, and our federal government accountable to priorities of the American people. House Republicans have a 21st century approach to the appropriations process. The American people deserve an efficient and accountable government, and this is Congress’s opportunity to assert oversight on the administration’s runaway spending. “Congress has the power of the purse, and this is our opportunity to use it in a way that helps the American people. Through the policy directives outlined in this week’s legislation, we will be able to ensure that we are eliminating waste, fraud, abuse and inefficiencies across the board. I’m thankful to have my Washington state colleague, Mr. Reichert, here with us today to talk about his perspective as a former law enforcement official on the impact these appropriations have on the safety of the American people.”
06.01.2015	“This industry needs transparency and flexibility, and local communities – not bureaucrats in Washington, D.C. – should be the key decision makers.“ WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today after the House passed H.R. 1335, the Strengthening Fishing Communities and Increasing Flexibility in Fisheries Management Act, which reauthorizes and updates the Magnuson-Stevens Act. This bill ensures the conservation and growth of U.S. fishery resources and supports the 381,000 U.S. jobs that rely on the seafood industry. “The fishing industry brings economic vitality to communities across America and is particularly important to the Pacific Northwest – yet too often the Federal Government gets in the way. This industry needs transparency and flexibility, and local communities – not bureaucrats in Washington, D.C. – should be the key decision makers. This common-sense solution reforms arbitrary and outdated mandates so that job creation and economic growth can flourish. I applaud this solution that will allow an integral U.S. industry to grow from the ground up.”
05.30.2015	“Unfortunately, the long wait times, insufficient care, and an unresponsive VA management did not end with the resignation of Secretary Shinseki.” SPOKANE, WASHINGTON – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement on the one-year anniversary of the resignation of Veterans Affairs’ Secretary Robert Shinseki. A year after the unacceptable wait times at VA hospitals were revealed and the Secretary of the agency resigned, little progress has been made. “Our veterans have made the ultimate sacrifice for our country, and their struggle should not continue when they return home. Last year, when the abhorrent treatment of our heroes was discovered, I demanded action. Unfortunately, the long wait times, insufficient care, and an unresponsive VA management did not end with the resignation of Secretary Shinseki. The VA has systematic failings that must be addressed – and a symbolic change in management is not enough. In the last month alone, the House has passed several bills that will make our veterans’ lives better, from economic opportunity to accountability within the VA. But there is still more work to do. Just this week, I met with the administration of the Spokane VA. I am optimistic that we can find solutions for our veterans. I will not waver in my fight to create a 21st century Department of Veterans Affairs. I look to the future with hope that we can act swiftly and compassionately – to not only demand answers from the VA – but to pass long-term solutions for the veterans who have served our nation.”
05.27.2015	“The Internet has fundamentally transformed business in Eastern Washington: it empowers entrepreneurs to grow our local economies from the ground up.” SPOKANE, WA – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) joined the Internet Association today in Spokane for a small business crawl to highlight local businesses using the Internet in innovative ways to grow, create jobs, and expand their customer base. The walking tour included stops at three unique businesses: Seven2, Uncle’s Games & Puzzles, and Sweet Frostings Blissful Bakeshop. U.S. Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers participated in the event led by Internet Association President and CEO Michael Beckerman. Representatives from Amazon, Expedia, Google, Intuit, and Yelp joined the crawl to learn from the small business owners and answer their questions. At each stop, McMorris Rodgers asked the business owners to talk about Spokane and why they choose to live and operate their businesses here. Internet technologies are empowering entrepreneurs in Spokane to reach customers across the globe. “As Eastern Washington’s representative in Congress – and as a longtime champion of using technology to modernize government and empower people – I was thrilled to see some of Spokane’s small businesses hard at work today,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Our Small Business Crawl highlighted the innovation, creativity and entrepreneurial spirit that are alive right here in the Pacific Northwest – and it demonstrated the integral role the Internet has played in their growth and expansion. From cupcakes to board games to digital ads, the Internet has fundamentally transformed the way we do business and grow our local economies from the ground up.” McMorris Rodgers at Uncle’s Games McMorris Rodgers at Sweet Frostings McMorris Rodgers at Seven2
05.25.2015	This morning I was honored to be a part of a ceremony at the Washington State Veterans Memorial Cemetery to remember our nation’s fallen heroes. To our service members, veterans, and families: thank you for your unwavering commitment to this country and for your service to America. It is because of you that we stand as the strongest, safest, and freest nation on this earth. On this day, we come together – not as Republicans or Democrats, but as Americans – to pay homage to the brave men and women who have so valiantly defended our country; who have answered America’s call to freedom; and who have defended us in our darkest hours. So today, I ask everyone to simply remember. Remember those who have served; remember those who have sacrificed; and remember those we have lost. This year’s Memorial Day is particularly meaningful to me because we honor one of this generation’s great heroes. Let me tell you a little bit about him. He was an infantry officer stationed at Pearl Harbor on that infamous day in 1941. As he picked up his daily newspaper, the first wave of bombers arrived. He was part of America’s D-Day invasion at Omaha Beach – and survived the brutal Battle of the Bulge, which led to the loss and injury of more the 90,000 troops. He was brave, and he was heroic, and he was humble. At 100 years old, Bud Garvin – a Pearl Harbor survivor and our Spokane hero – died just last month. But in the 100 years he lived, he embodied the valor and heroism for which America’s service members have long been known. Today I ask that we remember him – and the extraordinary men and women just like him – who through their sacrifices have ensured our Freedoms. Today, our troops are answering America’s call to freedom around the world. Our Soldiers, Marines, Airmen, Sailors and Coast Guardsmen have fought the evils of tyranny. They embraced their families as they left to defend America on the battlefields. Some returned home; many did not. In his famous Gettysburg address, President Abraham Lincoln – embroiled in a war to unite and preserve the future of this country – honored America’s soldiers with these words: “We are here dedicated to the great task before us – that from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause for which they gave the last full measure of devotion – that we resolve that these dead shall not have died in vain.” More than a century later – Lincoln’s words still ring true. Today, as we honor our veterans who have passed before us and bow our heads in prayer, we are reminded that we live in the freest country in the world – where we are not defined by what divides us, but bound by what unites us. To our veterans and their families: thank you for all your sacrifices to serve Eastern Washington and America. May God bless you, and may God continue to bless the United States of America!
05.21.2015	“This initiative will help our scientists, our job creators, and our patients.” WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) praised the Energy and Commerce Committee’s unanimous approval of the bipartisan 21st Century Cures Act, which will help to modernize and personalize health care, encourage greater innovation, support research, and streamline the system to deliver better, faster cures to more patients. The 21st Century Cures Act is driven by the work done by people in their communities, in Eastern Washington and all across America. This week, McMorris Rodgers testified before the Energy and Commerce Committee. “Just recently, I hosted a 21st Century Cures Roundtable in Spokane, Washington – where we heard from some of the country’s preeminent leaders in biotechnology, pharmacology, and medical research – and I was reminded that the Pacific Northwest – and the United States – are at the forefront of medical innovation across the globe,” McMorris Rodgers said. This legislation will accelerate the discovery and development of new treatments and cures. “There is hope for the 5 million people in this country who have been diagnosed with Alzheimer’s disease,” McMorris Rodgers said. The House Energy and Commerce Committee approved the 21st Century Cures Act 51-0. Cathy McMorris Rodgers, Remarks as Prepared for Delivery: Energy and Commerce Committee 21st Century Cures Opening Statement Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) “Good evening – and thank you to Chairman Upton for your leadership on this bipartisan initiative, and for your unending commitment to improving people’s lives. Your leadership extends far beyond this Committee room, Mr. Chairman – it extends into doctor’s offices and hospital rooms and homes across America. For the parents whose son was diagnosed with Autism; for that double amputee waiting on a new prosthetic; and for the 58-year old woman who just came home with breast cancer – this initiative is for them. Just recently, I hosted a 21st Century Cures Roundtable in Spokane, Washington – where we heard from some of the country’s preeminent leaders in biotechnology, pharmacology, and medical research – and I was reminded that the Pacific Northwest – and the United States – are at the forefront of medical innovation across the globe. The 21st Century Cures Initiative ensures that we will remain that leader. So thank you – to the Chairman and to my colleagues on this Committee – for making that happen. I’d like to begin tonight by highlighting an advancement that really embodies the work we’re all doing here – and it’s Biogen’s experimental Alzheimer’s treatment that was just recently announced. I mention this on the heels of a meeting I had with Spokane’s representatives from the Alzheimer’s Association – some of whom face a future of a disease without a cure. So when I see things like Biogen’s cutting-edge drug – which identifies and reduces the brain plaque thought to cause Alzheimer’s by over 70%! – it reminds me that there IS hope for the 5 million people in this country who have been diagnosed with Alzheimer’s disease. By identifying and treating the underlying causes of specific diseases, we can prevent them from happening altogether. And that’s just the beginning. The objective of our bipartisan 21st Century Cures Initiative is to accelerate the discovery and development of new treatments and cures – and ensure that America remains the leader of the global innovation economy. This initiative will help our scientists, our job creators, and most important: our patients. But we can only change that trajectory by changing our outlook. It begins by embracing an open, bottom-up approach to changing the status quo – and eliminating the cumbersome regulations that so often stymie scientific research and development. We recognize that the government can’t do it all. And when it tries to do it all, it fails the millions of people who are waiting on new treatments and therapies to survive. I’d like to thank you, Mr. Chairman, for including six of my bills in the final package – bills that modernize HIPAA laws, accelerate the discovery of new cures, create research consortia to treat pediatric disorders, and bring our regulatory framework into the 21st century. It’s imperative for patients to be heard when it comes to the treatments that affect them – which is why part of our initiative incorporates PROs – Patient Reported Outcomes – into the drug approval process. Whether it’s ALS or breast cancer or Down syndrome – our patients’ feedback can significantly improve clinical trials for new drugs. So often we bring drugs to the market when we haven’t conducted risk/benefit analyses on the patients they’re designed to treat. My legislation will change that. I’ve also included legislation to expedite the FDA’s approval process for qualifying biomarkers. In fact, of the 60 biomarkers that have been submitted to the FDA for qualification, only 4 have been validated. The identification of biomarkers is crucial to the development of new clinical therapies. I certainly appreciate the bipartisan manner in which this package was finalized – and I look forward to working closely on the legislation as it moves to the floor – particularly when it comes to validating biomarkers. I’ve seen firsthand how every good idea comes from individuals – the medicines that save people’s lives every day for heart disease and cancer and Diabetes all came from individuals who discovered something life-changing and pursued it. So I thank you ALL for joining me in the fight to promote medical innovation and save lives because of it. To me, there is no cause more noble than this.” CLICK HERE to watch.
05.20.2015	“Our country was built on the shoulders of creative, hardworking, entrepreneurial people who want to change the world. I am proud to pass legislation that empowers these individuals and ensures that America remains competitive both at home and abroad.” WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today after the House passed H.R. 880, the American Research and Competitiveness Act of 2015, and H.R. 1806, the America COMPETES Reauthorization Act of 2015. Both of these bills foster innovation in science, technology, and research to increase American competitiveness. H.R. 880 utilizes our tax code to give entrepreneurs in Eastern Washington and around the country the security they need to invest in long-term projects, while H.R. 1806 authorizes funding for educational research. “Investing in education and research today is an investment in our country’s future. By making research and development tax credits permanent, small business owners can pursue innovative solutions, knowing the financial rug won’t be pulled out from underneath them. And because we understand that education is the foundation of innovation, I voted to strengthen our grant system – so that students are able to undertake research that will lead tomorrow’s treatments, cures, and technological advancements. Our country was built on the shoulders of creative, hardworking, entrepreneurial people who want to change the world. I am proud to pass legislation that empowers them and ensures that America remains competitive both at home and abroad.
05.19.2015	“This bill enables safety improvement and paving projects in Eastern Washington to move forward as planned.” WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) voted today to ensure important transportation safety and road maintenance projects move forward this summer as scheduled. The Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2015 (H.R. 2353), passed the House 381-35 with bipartisan support and extends funding for transportation projects through the end of July. McMorris Rodgers praised the bipartisan action to advance this important funding today. “This bill enables safety improvement and paving projects in Eastern Washington to move forward as planned,” McMorris Rodgers said. For Eastern Washington, the summer road construction period is an essential time for building and maintaining our road infrastructure. “Our roads must be safe and well maintained; it is essential to our economy and our Eastern Washington way of life,” McMorris Rodgers said. McMorris Rodgers remains committed to important regional transportation priorities, such as the North Spokane Corridor and Highway 12 in Walla Walla.
05.19.2015	“Whenever I’m home, not only am I reminded that the Pacific Northwest really does embody that innovative and entrepreneurial spirit for which America has long been known – but I’m reminded that the world’s greatest ideas begin with people, creative, hardworking, entrepreneurial people who want to change the world.” WASHINGTON, DC – In a House Republican leadership press conference today, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) emphasized the significance of the Pacific Northwest’s innovative and entrepreneurial spirit. This week the House will pass legislation to promote innovation and unleash American ingenuity. Next week the Congresswoman will visit entrepreneurs and startups in Spokane. Rep. McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Remarks as Prepared for Delivery: “This week, the House will advance critically important legislation before we head home to our districts all across the country. And as I prepare to go home to Eastern Washington next week – and see firsthand the innovation taking place in their schools and hospitals and startup companies and laboratories – I am proud of the work we’re doing here to make that happen. “This week we’re advancing legislation that will promote innovation and unleash the American ingenuity that accompanies it. Innovation in science, space, computing, and technology. Innovation to spur research and development so America remains the leader of the global economy. And innovation that encourages people all over the country to pioneer new technologies, discover new treatments, and launch new startups. “You know, whenever I’m home, not only am I reminded that the Pacific Northwest really does embody that innovative and entrepreneurial spirit for which America has long been known – but I’m reminded the world’s greatest ideas begin with people. They begin with creative, hardworking, entrepreneurial people who want to change the world. This week I’m proud to pass legislation to empower them and ensure that America remains competitive both at home and abroad.” Click here to watch the Congresswoman’s remarks.
05.19.2015	“This bill enables safety improvement and paving projects in Eastern Washington to move forward as planned.” WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) voted today to ensure important transportation safety and road maintenance projects move forward this summer as scheduled. The Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2015 (H.R. 2353), passed the House 381-35 with bipartisan support and extends funding for transportation projects through the end of July. McMorris Rodgers praised the bipartisan action to advance this important funding today. “This bill enables safety improvement and paving projects in Eastern Washington to move forward as planned,” McMorris Rodgers said. For Eastern Washington, the summer road construction period is an essential time for building and maintaining our road infrastructure. “Our roads must be safe and well maintained; it is essential to our economy and our Eastern Washington way of life,” McMorris Rodgers said. McMorris Rodgers remains committed to important regional transportation priorities, such as the North Spokane Corridor and Highway 12 in Walla Walla.
05.18.2015	“Today, I voted to improve the lives of our heroes – from employment opportunities to health care – through six common-sense solutions.” WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) is focused on ensuring tangible improvements in the outcomes for veterans. Today she voted to pass six bills that give veterans the support they need and demand accountability at the Department of Veterans Affairs. These bills directly impact the issue of veteran homelessness in Spokane and throughout Eastern Washington. McMorris Rodgers issued the following statement: “Eastern Washington’s veterans have made the ultimate sacrifice for our country, but their struggle should not continue when they return home. Today, I voted to empower our American heroes – from employment opportunities to health care – through six common-sense solutions that make their lives better. Incentives to hire our heroes and make small business ownership easier will create new possibilities for our veterans and their families. We addressed the growing crisis of homelessness and passed a solution to streamline veteran identification. And we held the Department of Veterans Affairs accountable so discrepancies within the agency cannot be ignored.” “As Memorial Day approaches, there is no better opportunity to reflect on how we can serve our veterans and make their lives better. I will continue my commitment to supporting those who have already given so much.” The House passed the following bills tonight: H.R. 1382, Boosting Rates of American Veteran Employment Act H.R. 1313, Service Disabled Veteran Owned Small Business Relief Act H.R. 1038, Ensuring VA Employee Accountability Act H.R. 474, Homeless Veterans’ Reintegration Programs Reauthorization Act of 2015 H.R. 91, Veteran’s I.D. Card Act H.R. 1816, Vulnerable Veterans Housing Reform Act of 2015
05.18.2015	SPOKANE, WA—Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers’s staff members are hosting mobile office hours throughout Eastern Washington. Anyone who needs assistance with a federal agency or would like to voice an opinion on federal issues is encouraged to come by—no appointment necessary. McMorris Rodgers staff members will be in Clarkston, WA on May 22, 2015: Friday, May 22 Clarkston: SEWEDA Office, 845 Port Way, 11:00AM – 12:30PM Any further questions can be directed to the Walla Walla office at 509-529-9358
05.15.2015	“As the proud representative of Eastern Washington’s Fairchild Air Force Base, I voted today with unwavering support for legislation that empowers America’s service members and their families.” WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) issued the following statement today after the House passed H.R. 1735, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016, which fully funds America’s troops with the resources and support they need to defend our country abroad. “As the proud representative of Eastern Washington’s Fairchild Air Force Base, I voted today with unwavering support for legislation that empowers America’s service members and their families. As we witness the escalation of dangers across the globe – from on-the-ground threats to cybersecurity breaches – our troops must be able to respond quickly and efficiently. Today I voted to make sure that our armed forces – those at Fairchild and all across America – are equipped with the support, funding, and resources they need to answer our call to freedom. This bill will make our military more agile by reforming military programs, eliminating outdated regulations, and more efficiently allocating our funds – as well as securing funding for the important KC-46A tankers. American troops will now be ready to answer 21st-century threats like ISIL, cybersecurity, and an encroaching Russia. “And for our veterans who have served, this bill will empower them with better care. As Co-Chair of the bipartisan Congressional Military Family Caucus, I am especially proud that this legislation will care for Eastern Washington’s military families with care and compassion. This is an important step forward in making sure all of our service members and their families – past and present – receive the best treatment available. As we strengthen America’s military readiness at home and abroad, I will continue my unwavering commitment to the men and women who so valiantly defend this country. Our nation stands for so much – freedom, democracy, and opportunity – yet it’s only through the protection provided by our brave men and women in uniform that this remains possible.”
05.15.2015	“Our nation stands for so much – freedom, democracy, and opportunity – yet it’s only through the protection provided by our brave men and women in uniform that this remains possible.” WASHINGTON, DC – House Republican Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) issued the following statement today after the House passed H.R. 1735, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016, which fully funds our troops with the resources and support they need to defend our country abroad. “The sacrifices our military men and women make every day are what allow American families at home to feel safe and secure. Yet as we watch dangers around the world evolve – from on-the-ground threats to cybersecurity breaches – our troops must be able to respond quickly and efficiently. Today I voted to make sure that our armed forces have the support, funding, and resources they need to answer America’s call to freedom. This bill will make our military more agile by reforming military programs, eliminating outdated regulations, and more efficiently allocating our funds. American troops will now be ready to answer 21st century threats like ISIL, cybersecurity, and an encroaching Russia. “And for the veterans who have served, this bill will empower them with better quality care. This is an important step forward in making sure all of our service members – past and present – receive the best treatment available. I applaud Chairman Mac Thornberry’s (R-TX) unwavering commitment to the men and women who so valiantly defend this country. Our nation stands for so much – freedom, democracy, and opportunity – yet it’s only through the protection provided by our brave men and women in uniform that this remains possible.”
05.14.2015	“I look to the future with hope that we can act swiftly and appropriately – to not only demand answers from the VA – but to pass long-term solutions for our veterans’ health care.” WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) issued the following statement after an internal Department of Veterans Affairs report revealed that $6 billion have been misspent annually in waste, fraud and abuse at the Department of Veterans Affairs. “The consistent disregard for taxpayer dollars within the Department of Veterans Affairs is more than financial mismanagement – it is blatant disrespect for the men and women who have made the ultimate sacrifice to our country. The information released in this report is horrifying, and I refuse to allow these delinquencies to be repeated or allowed. As Eastern Washington’s representative in Congress – representing the brave men and women at Fairchild Air Force Base – I will not waver in my fight to create a 21st-century Department of Veterans Affairs. I look to the future with hope that we can act swiftly and appropriately – to not only demand answers from the VA – but to pass long-term solutions for our veterans’ health care.” Read the Washington Post article highlighting the VA’s mismanagement here.
05.14.2015	“With today’s strong bipartisan vote, the Administration should see that it must not endorse a final agreement that unshackles the Iranian war machine.” WASHINGTON, DC – House Republican Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) released the following statement today after the House passed H.R. 1191, the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act. “Today I voted to give Congress a clear voice in any action to end sanctions on Iran. The toughest sanctions against Iran were imposed by the Congress and I’ll work with my colleagues to ensure they are not lifted without Congressional approval. As long as Iran remains a sponsor of terrorism, dedicated to the destruction of Israel, there should receive no economic relief. Already the proposed agreement is setting off an arms race in the Middle East, with Iran’s Sunni Arab neighbors scrambling to procure bigger and more powerful weapons. With today’s strong bipartisan vote, the Administration should see that it must not endorse a final agreement that unshackles the Iranian war machine.” “Today I was also proud to vote for the Hezbollah International Financing Prevention Act of 2015, which would lock out of the international finance system the banks, broadcasters and internet providers who cooperate with the Iranian-backed Hezbollah terrorists in spreading their ideology and violence throughout the world.”
05.13.2015	“We want to empower every single individual to reach their full potential. That is why I am here: to stand as a fierce protector of that life.” WASHINGTON, DC – House Republican Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) delivered the following statement in advance of the House vote today on H.R. 36, the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act, which will establish federal legal protection for unborn children at 20 weeks, with exceptions to save the life of the mother or in cases of rape or incest. The bill passed the House shortly after the Chairwoman’s remarks. Chair McMorris Rodgers, Remarks as Prepared for Delivery: “We hold these truths to be self-evident: that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their creator with certain unalienable rights. And among these rights, are the rights of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. The bill before the House today affirms what the majority of American believe: that over halfway through a pregnancy, an unborn baby deserves the full protection of the law and the Constitution. “As a mother of three, and as a legislator, I believe every life has the right to reach its full potential. We live in an extraordinary time in which we’re not bound by the conditions of our birth. We are not set to circumstances. And we should not be defined by what limits us, but empowered by what we can become. As lawmakers, it’s our responsibility to make sure our laws reflect that. Medical science continues to evolve to create greater potential for life. Emerging research is challenging what we previously thought to be true about the earliest stages of life. Just last week, the New York Times highlighted a study that showed a growing number of premature infants surviving after the point at which this bill would make abortion illegal. “As a society, we need to ask whether we want to move forward with a better standard of living, or if we want to rely on the outdated scientific research of the past. I want to legislate for the future – and the future will be defined by how we use the advancements taking place today to protect and improve human life. Those who represent the future are already there. According to a recent pole, 57% of Millennials support this bill – and they echo the voice of America. Sixty percent of Americans – Democrats, Republicans, and independents – support the Pain Capable Act. “Abortion is really a symptom of larger challenges that exist in our society – and these challenges demand the attention of lawmakers. Pretending there is a one-size-fits-all approach to abortion ignores the complex circumstances that surround each woman who is forced to consider choosing abortion. This bill recognizes that at the halfway point of a pregnancy, those circumstances are increasingly more unique. Research shows that abortion becomes riskier to a woman’s health the later it occurs in pregnancy. We should not trivialize the decision to undertake an abortion at 20 weeks by suggesting it should be made without additional medical or emotional support. “We should write laws that empower women to make these decisions. We should support laws that show compassion for women. We should trust individuals to make the best choices for themselves. We want to empower every single individual to reach their full potential. This country has made great strides in empowering all people, no matter where they started. That is why I am here: to stand as a fierce protector of that life. The human rights and dignity of all people should be reflected in every piece of legislation we bring to the floor. “This bill asks us to consider whether we are a society that will tolerate abortion at any point of development, even though we know babies can begin to feel pain at 20 weeks and survive outside the womb. This bill asks us to consider if it is compassionate to maintain a regime that does nothing to offer emotional and medical support for a woman facing the difficult decision of choosing an abortion over halfway through her pregnancy. These are questions that we must ask. And I am prepared to answer them by supporting the Pain-Capable Unborn Child Protection Act. I urge my colleagues to reject the Motion to Recommit.”
05.13.2015	“82% of the American people said they wanted Congress to work together to achieve what is best for the country. And in the last five months, that is exactly what we have done. And we’ve done it because we have listened to you.” WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) delivered the following remarks at a House Republican leadership press conference today: “This week marks another important week here in Congress – one in which this House Republican Majority will advance real solutions for the American people. You know, five months ago, when the House Republican Majority was elected, 82% of the American people said they wanted Congress to work together to achieve what is best for the country. And in the last five months, that is exactly what we have done. And you know what – we’ve done it because we have listened to you. “We’ve listened to seniors – and we’ve passed permanent, bipartisan entitlement reform – the ‘Doc Fix’ – to help protect them. We’ve listened to our moms, dads, students, and families back at home – and we passed a budget that holds Congress accountable to them, and begun an Appropriations process that reflects their priorities. And we’ve listened to those on the front lines of our national defense – our troops, service-members, and military families, like those back at Fairchild Air Force Base in Eastern Washington – and we’re advancing legislation this week that protects them. “Those are just a few of many solutions coming out of this House Republican majority. In the last five months, this Congress has made you the priority. We hear your concerns. We care. And we will continue to listen.” Click here to watch the press conference.
05.12.2015	“Today, I voted to rein in the Administration’s flawed Waters of the United Sates (WOTUS) proposed rule, so American farmers, small business owners, and entrepreneurs have the ability to grow our economy from the bottom up.” WASHINGTON, DC – House Republican Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) issued the following statement today after the House passed H.R. 1732, the Regulatory Integrity Protection Act, which prevents the implementation of unnecessary Waters of the United States (WOTUS) regulations that hurt the American economy. The bill directs the EPA to issue a new rule based on input from the public, states, and stakeholders and consistent with Supreme Court precedent. “Yet again, the EPA has unnecessarily attempted to control drainage ditches, farm ponds, and even seasonally wet areas – a move that would only have a detrimental effect on hardworking American families. Today, I voted to rein in the Administration’s flawed Waters of the United Sates (WOTUS) proposed rule, so American farmers, small business owners, and entrepreneurs have the ability to grow our economy from the bottom up. I applaud the work of Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA) for his leadership in holding the EPA accountable so all Americans are given the opportunity to succeed. This commonsense legislation plays an important role in protecting our state and local governments, and puts the decisions of our nation’s waters back in the hands of those who know best.”
04.30.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) issued the following statement today after the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) indicated they have decided to update Medicare’s coverage policy on speech-generating devices (SGDs). Their proposal addresses one of the issues mentioned in a bipartisan, bicameral letter sent last August to the Secretary of HHS by over 200 Members of the House and Senate. The new CMS policy would take the important step of ensuring patients that they can “unlock” their devices and use communication tools like email and text messages. For patients who are severely disabled, often confined to wheelchairs, these innovations are critical. Similar equipment is used by Steve Gleason, former professional football player with the New Orleans Saints. “It is certainly a promising step forward that CMS has finally responded to concerns expressed in our letter, which over 200 bipartisan Members have signed and supported. The ability to use these devices for not only speaking, but also for accessing email and text, allows patients to communicate with loved ones and doctors in a way they previously could not. But for families across Eastern Washington, there is still a tremendous amount of work to be done. Our legislation, the Steve Gleason Act, proactively undertakes innovative eye tracking alternatives and speech-generating devices for those who can no longer speak or type, and addresses the placement of these devices under the ‘capped rental’ category. This common-sense legislation offers support to those who have already been challenged by so much. I applaud my colleagues, Senators David Vitter (R-LA) and Amy Klobuchar (D-MN) for their successful efforts to pass this through the Senate, and look forward to moving this bill through the House with my colleague Rep. Steve Scalise (R-LA). I remain committed to bringing the Steve Gleason Act to a vote in the House – and I will continue to champion the medical technology and scientific innovation that will save millions of lives.”
04.30.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) issued the following statement today after the House passed H.R. 2029, the FY 2016 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill. This appropriations bill authorizes $76.6 billion dollars to our veterans and Military support systems, to ensure our heroes receive the support they need. “I have seen firsthand how veterans across Eastern Washington face extraordinary challenges when it comes to getting the care they have earned. Today, we voted to increase funding for our veterans, giving them access to career training and benefit programs that pointedly address mental health care and traumatic brain energy. By providing $48.6 billion dollars for nearly 7 million veterans, we are modernizing veterans’ health care opportunities with a streamlined electronic health record system that will strengthen VA Medical Services in all parts of our country. For the men and women currently serving, we increased funding to their support systems around the world. As Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus and a vocal champion of Eastern Washington’s service members, I am especially proud to have helped ensure 1.3 million quality housing opportunities for military families at home, and upgraded infrastructure projects that house our heroes abroad. Today, we sent a clear message that our priority is the men and women who have made the ultimate sacrifice.”
04.30.2015	“As families around the country plan for their future, they can feel confident that a healthy American economic foundation is now in place.” WASHINGTON, DC – House Republican Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) issued the following statement today after the House passed the Conference Report to S. Con Res. 11, which establishes the budget for the United States Fiscal Year 2016, and sets forth appropriate budgetary levels for fiscal years 2017 through 2025. The bicameral FY 2016 budget balances the budget within ten years without raising taxes, and contains over $5 trillion in savings. “For families across the country, a balanced budget isn’t just a priority for their finances – it’s also a priority for their future. Today, I voted to make sure Washington, D.C. has the same mindset. Our budget is the first step toward putting our country back on a fiscally responsible track – balancing in less than ten years with no new taxes, and ensuring taxpayer dollars are spent more responsibly and efficiently. We’ve made sure American priorities like a strong national defense, increased employment opportunities, and the preservation of Medicare are fully funded – and at the same time, we’ve repealed Obamacare, and cut out redundancies that waste taxpayer dollars. I applaud Chairman Price (R-GA) and our colleagues in the Senate for their hard work in crafting a balanced, transparent budget that empowers current and future generations. As families around the country plan for their future, they can feel confident that a healthy American economic foundation is now in place.”
04.29.2015	“The budget we’ll pass this week – and the appropriations bills that will fund our Military and empower our veterans – are just examples of how Congress is working together to get things done for the American people. “ WASHINGTON, DC – At a House Republican leadership press conference today, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) highlighted the many solutions she is advancing for the people of Eastern Washington: “Good morning! I’d like to start today by wishing my son Cole a happy eighth birthday! And you know, when I look at Cole, he reminds me every day that the work we do here in Congress matters. It matters for the families back home in Eastern Washington, who save their money and balance their budgets so they can send their kids to college. It matters for our veterans – who face extraordinary challenges when it comes to getting the care they need. And it matters for the next generation – for Cole and the millions of kids like him who want to be given an opportunity to succeed. “That’s why this week I look forward to voting on a final budget agreement – one that holds Congress accountable to the people, balances in 10 years, and ensures that we’re leaving a stronger America for our children and grandchildren. The budget we’ll pass this week – and the appropriations bills that will fund our Military and empower our veterans – are just examples of how Congress is working together to get things done for the American people. Every day, we’re opening the doors of opportunity to people all across this country. That’s why we’re here – and that’s who we’re fighting for.” Click here to watch her remarks.
04.29.2015	“The budget we’ll pass this week – and the appropriations bills that will fund our Military and empower our veterans – are just examples of how Congress is working together to get things done for the American people. “ WASHINGTON, DC – At a House Republican leadership press conference today, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) highlighted the many solutions she is advancing for the people of Eastern Washington: “Good morning! I’d like to start today by wishing my son Cole a happy eighth birthday! And you know, when I look at Cole, he reminds me every day that the work we do here in Congress matters. It matters for the families back home in Eastern Washington, who save their money and balance their budgets so they can send their kids to college. It matters for our veterans – who face extraordinary challenges when it comes to getting the care they need. And it matters for the next generation – for Cole and the millions of kids like him who want to be given an opportunity to succeed. “That’s why this week I look forward to voting on a final budget agreement – one that holds Congress accountable to the people, balances in 10 years, and ensures that we’re leaving a stronger America for our children and grandchildren. The budget we’ll pass this week – and the appropriations bills that will fund our Military and empower our veterans – are just examples of how Congress is working together to get things done for the American people. Every day, we’re opening the doors of opportunity to people all across this country. That’s why we’re here – and that’s who we’re fighting for.” Click here to watch her remarks.
04.28.2015	“When it comes to running a business – the owner knows best. It’s their vision, their dream. Our bill will empower these innovative entrepreneurs to decide how to best provide customers with the information they need, and grow their business from the ground up.” Bipartisan Press Conference April 28, 2015 U.S. Capitol Participants: House Republican Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers Rep. Loretta Sanchez (D-CA) Rep. Renee Ellmers (R-NC) Rep. Steve Womack (R-AR) Peter Larkin, CEO of the National Grocers Association Leslie Sarasin, President and CEO of the Food Marketing Institute Mary Lynne Carraway, Domino’s franchise owner in Virginia, Maryland, and Washington, D.C. Jonathan Sharp, Domino’s franchise owner in Amarillo, Texas Representatives from the National Grocer Association and Food Marketing Institute Chair McMorris Rodgers, Remarks as Prepared for Delivery: “Good afternoon – thanks for being here today to talk about how we can roll back one of the costliest regulations to help empower small business across the country. As many of you know – and as many of those standing up here today have experienced firsthand – the FDA’s regulations have hurt American employees, business owners, and our economy. Adhering to burdensome menu labeling requirements will be extremely costly – in both time and resources – for restaurants, grocery stores, delivery chains, and movie theaters across our country. “This proposal is one of the most expensive regulations ever – with expected costs being over $1.2 billion and nearly 500,000 hours of paperwork. Think about it this way: for companies like Domino’s Pizza, every potential toppings combination – well over 5 million options – would have to be calculated and publicized. This requirement simply is not workable. “And these costs and responsibilities wouldn’t fall on the FDA, but instead on the shoulders of hardworking, entrepreneurial Americans. The FDA’s action suffocates the innovative potential of the food industry, making it harder for American businesses to expand and grow from the bottom up. It is our responsibility to reverse the overbearing regulations of powerful government agencies, and represent the needs of American entrepreneurs. That is why I’m proud to sponsor H.R. 2017, the Common Sense Nutrition Disclosure Act of 2015. “The Common Sense Nutrition Disclosure Act of 2015 is the first step forward in reversing this detrimental regulation and holds an overbearing FDA accountable. When it comes to running a business – the owner knows best. It’s their vision, their dream. Our bill will empower these innovative entrepreneurs to decide how to best provide customers with the information they need, and grow their business from the ground up.”
04.23.2015	“America stood with Israel at the beginning and must continue to stand beside it today. I will continue to work tirelessly to make certain the United States is an unequivocal, staunch, bipartisan, and steadfast friend of Israel.” WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) issued the following statement today to mark Israel’s 67th Independence Day: “Today Israel marks its 67th Independence Day, commemorating the signing of the Israeli declaration of Independence, and the end of the British mandate. The declaration states it ‘is the natural right of the Jewish people to be masters of their own fate, like all other nations, in their own sovereign State.’ The day after declaring independence, Israel was attacked by the combined forces of Egypt, Jordan, Syria, and Iraq. Israel’s young army triumphed and the dream of generations was fulfilled. “America stood with Israel at the beginning and must continue to stand beside it today. I will continue to work tirelessly to make certain the United States is an unequivocal, staunch, bipartisan, and steadfast friend of Israel. Happy Independence Day to our friends and allies in Israel!”
04.23.2015	“Sharing experiences of cyber breaches will educate business owners, employees, and families – and most important, mark a proactive step forward in combating cyber breaches.” WASHINGTON, DC – House Republican Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) issued the following statement today after the House passed H.R. 1560, the Protecting Cyber Networks Act and H.R. 1731, the National Cybersecurity Protection Advancement Act of 2015, which address the growing threat of cyber breaches by encouraging secure, private information sharing in effort to protect the American people from future cyberattacks. “This past year, cyber breaches grew in size and scope – there were too many attacks on private companies, infringements on the finances of American families, and violations on personal information. Americans should feel secure at home, especially when it comes to their private information. Unfortunately, businesses lack the guidelines to share cybersecurity experiences with their peers – and when information isn’t being shared, no one is able to learn from past cyberattacks. This week, House Republicans passed two solutions that give Americans the ability to not only share valuable lessons with each other, but reinforce their grip on personal privacy and civil liberties. I applaud the hard work of Chairmen David Nunes (R-CA) and Michael McCaul (R-TX) for finding a solution to the growing threat of cyber breaches. As the threats Americans face change, we must adapt accordingly. Sharing experiences of cyber breaches will educate business owners, employees, and families – and most important, mark a proactive step forward in combating cyber breaches.”
04.22.2015	“In the first 100 days, the new Republican Majority has empowered the individual. We’ve put people above politics. And we’ve worked together to get things done. This is why we’re here.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – In a House Republican press conference today, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) discussed her efforts to create new opportunities for people in Eastern Washington. She highlighted her work to empower Eastern Washington families to reach their full potential – through a simpler tax code, a budget that balances, and a stronger local economy. Remarks as Prepared for Delivery: “It’s been just over 100 days since the new Republican Majority came to Congress to advance solutions for Americans in every corner of this country. And in the last 100 days, that’s exactly what we have done: we have opened the doors to America’s Opportunity Economy. We’ve done that by doing one thing: empowering the individual. “All of our solutions – from helping job seekers to simplifying the tax code to expanding educational opportunities for our students – are based on empowering every individual to reach their full potential. In the last 100 days, House Republicans have passed a budget that balances in less than ten years and makes Congress accountable to the people it represents. We’ve passed legislation to give our local businesses and job seekers – like those back in Spokane, Washington – greater opportunities to expand and succeed. “And we’ve taken on one of the greatest causes of our time, which is bringing the VA into the 21st century so it can better serve those that have defended this country. In the first 100 days, the new Republican Majority has empowered the individual. We’ve put people above politics. And we’ve worked together to get things done. This is why we’re here. And that is what we will continue to do.”
04.15.2015	“It begins by cultivating an environment that welcomes our veterans and ensures that the quality of their care is of paramount importance.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement in light of a recent Associate Press analysis revealing continued appointment delays at Veterans Hospitals in Washington state and across the country: “Not a day goes by when I don’t hear from veterans in Eastern Washington who are struggling – struggling to access quality care, and struggling with a bureaucratic system that continues to fail them. That is unacceptable. We should be honoring the men and women who have dutifully served our country, not making them feel like a burden. It begins by cultivating an environment that welcomes our veterans and ensures that the quality of their care is of paramount importance. “I am working every day to ensure that our veterans have a strong and unwavering leader in Congress. I’m fighting to hold the VA accountable and to create a 21st-century agency that prioritizes the safety and well-being of Eastern Washington’s veterans. As a part of those efforts, last month I supported the Long-Term Care Veteran Choice Act, which helps our veterans access care. Their wellbeing must always be the priority. As I continue the fight to modernize the VA, I will stand up for Eastern Washington’s veterans the same way they have so valiantly stood up for us.” The Congresswoman has been a longtime champion of reforming and modernizing the VA, and she had her staff meet regularly with Spokane VA and Walla Walla VA to address concerns that have been raised with her office. In November, following the Spokane VA’s announcement it would reduce hours at the Emergency Department, she wrote a letter to Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert McDonald seeking an explanation, and continues to advocate for improved access to care for Spokane veterans. This past July, the Congresswoman supported the bipartisan Veteran Access to Care Act of 2014, for which she was an original co-sponsor. This legislation enables veterans who live over 40 miles from a VA facility to receive non-VA care, and guarantees those veterans who have experienced extensive wait times access to non-VA care. Click here to read the Congresswoman’s June Q&A with the Walla Walla Union-Bulletin about the work she is doing to modernize the VA and advocate for veterans, and here to read her Union-Bulletin op-ed about these ongoing efforts. In March, the Congresswoman became an original co-sponsor of the Veterans Access to Community Care Act of 2015, which clarifies the 40-mile rule and would ensure Eastern Washington veterans are not denied access to quality care because of where they live.
04.14.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) issued the following statement today after the House passed two bills to reduce the regulatory burden and provide financial independence to all Americans: H.R. 650, the Preserving Access to Manufactured Housing Act, and H.R. 685, the Mortgage Choice Act. “Right now, there are far too many people in Washington state – and all across America – who struggle to get ahead because the government is standing in their way. These are our young families trying to buy their first homes; our moms and dads saving to send their kids to college; and our entrepreneurs eager to get their businesses off the ground. There’s one thing that stands between them and their financial independence: the federal government’s red tape. “Federal regulations have made it too difficult for low and moderate-income Americans to qualify for a mortgage – and as a result, too many people find the American Dream unachievable. The bipartisan legislation we passed today changes that. Our bottom-up approach to growing a healthy economy puts financial choices where they belong: in consumers’ hands. It reduces the regulatory burden and makes it easier for hardworking men and women in Eastern Washington to qualify for a mortgage, buy their first home, and achieve financial independence. I continue my commitment to making the American Dream a reality for everyone in this country.”
04.14.2015	“As I come back from one Washington to this one, I bring with me one very important message: the American people want a tax code that empowers them, not limits them.” WASHINGTON, D.C. – In a House Republican press conference today, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) discussed the work she is doing to empower people in Eastern Washington and make their lives better through a simpler, fairer tax code. Remarks as Prepared for Delivery: “It did my heart good to be back home in Eastern Washington for the past two weeks – meeting with innovators, small business employees, local health care providers, and hardworking moms and dads all across our state as they get ready to file their taxes. And as I come back from one Washington to this one, I bring with me one very important message: the American people want a tax code that empowers them, not limits them. So as we stand here, on the eve of tax day, let’s start by recognizing the need for a tax code that puts people first, not Washington first. “Today – roughly 1 in 5 Americans live in states that do not have an income tax – including my home state of Washington – and as a result, those taxpayers have to deduct sales tax instead of state income tax on their federal tax returns. In 2012, 27 percent of tax filers in Washington claimed the sales tax deduction, saving Washingtonians $2 billion, fueling our local economy and putting more money into people’s pockets. But nearly two years ago, that deduction expired. And this week we’re voting to make this important tax deduction a permanent part of our federal tax code. This is one of the many ways we’re protecting taxpayers with certainty, simplicity and fairness. So as you sit down to finish your taxes this week, know that Republicans in Congress are listening. We’re empowering you with a simpler, fairer tax code that will make your lives better.”
04.14.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the House passed H.R. 1259, the bipartisan Helping Expand Lending Practices in Rural Communities Act last night, which provides an appeals process for rural communities, enabling the exemption of certain loans from the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s Qualified Mortgage rule. “Time and time again we’ve seen federal regulations get in the way of job creation and local economic growth in Eastern Washington. That’s why I’m proud to advocate for rural communities all across our region by working to increase transparency in the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau’s ‘rural’ classification. I joined my colleagues on both sides of the aisle in cutting federal red tape and standing up for rural America – because one-size-fits-all regulations do not help communities like ours thrive and grow. Let us continue to come together to grow our economy from the bottom up and create new, high-paying jobs and opportunities for people across Eastern Washington.” The bipartisan Helping Expand Lending Practices in Rural Communities Act would give rural communities in Eastern Washington the right to petition to be reclassified as “rural.” The legislation establishes appeals process to contest ‘non-rural’ designation.
04.02.2015	“A regime so committed to supporting terrorism, furthering instability across the region, violently oppressing its own people, threatening U.S. national security, and destroying Israel cannot be trusted. Let’s not allow America to make that mistake.” WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today after the Administration announced a framework for a nuclear deal with Iran. “The Administration’s preliminary nuclear agreement with Iran only further indicates the regime’s unwillingness to curb its nuclear program. These parameters – and the delay tactics that accompany them – will not stop Iran’s terrorist aggression, sowing chaos throughout the region. As these negotiations were underway, Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, gave approval to crowds chanting ‘Death to America!’ on the streets of Iran. “A regime so committed to supporting terrorism, furthering instability across the region, violently oppressing its own people, threatening U.S. national security, and destroying Israel cannot be trusted. If we lift the sanctions – a decision that must be reviewed by Congress – we are funding missiles aimed at Israel and Iranian surrogate forces in Lebanon, Iraq and Syria. The world pays a very heavy price for a naïve negotiation with a known state sponsor of terrorism. Let’s not allow America to make that mistake.” Earlier this week, Rep. McMorris Rodgers wrote an op-ed addressing the Administration’s negotiations with Iran. Click here to read her op-ed on CNN.com.
03.30.2015	“Today’s roundtable highlighted our efforts to accelerate the discovery and development of new treatments and cures – and ensure that America remains the leader of the global innovation economy.” SPOKANE, WA – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today after hosting a 21st Century Cures Roundtable at WSU Spokane. The Congresswoman was joined by patient advocates, innovators, and researchers from Eastern Washington and across the country, including representatives from Team Gleason, the Spokane Arthritis Association, 23andME, Washington State University, Susan G Komen for the Cure Eastern Washington, and the Spokane Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation. “We talk a lot about America being the global leader in innovation, but often when it comes to medical advancements, clinical trials, and the drug approval process, we need to better harness the amazing technologies we have at our fingertips. As a proud Member of the House Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee, I’ve worked to help utilize those technologies through our ‘21st Century Cures Initiative’ in Congress – an initiative that paves the way for better and faster cures right here in Eastern Washington. “Today’s roundtable highlighted our efforts to accelerate the discovery and development of new treatments and cures – and ensure that America remains the leader of the global innovation economy. We need to embrace an open, bottom-up approach to change the status quo and eliminate the cumbersome regulations that so often stymie scientific research. Our discussion brought together patient advocates, innovators, and researchers from Eastern Washington and across the country, including Gail Gleason, a heroic advocate for the ALS community, and the mother of Steve Gleason. I am so proud to join Gail in the fight to promote medical innovation and save lives in Eastern Washington and across America. To me, there is no cause more noble than that.” During the roundtable discussion, the Congresswoman reiterated her commitment to moving the Steve Gleason Act forward this Congress. She introduced the legislation in January in an effort to reverse CMS policy changes that limit patient access to Speech Generating Devices. The roundtable was a part of the Energy and Commerce Committee 21st Century Cures initiative, and focused on the recently released 21st Century Cures discussion draft and the Congresswoman’s ongoing efforts to promote the use of innovative technologies to expedite the drug approval process.
03.26.2015	“While the debate over how people access quality and affordable health care in this country is ongoing, today marks a step towards strengthening the future of Medicare reform, and a step towards helping people in Eastern Washington access care.” WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today after the House passed H.R. 2, the Medicare Access and CHIP Reauthorization Act of 2015. “People across Eastern Washington elected me to lead – to put their best interests first, and to advocate for them in every way I can. After 17 short-term patches to the Sustainable Growth Rate in the past 11 years, today, in a bipartisan fashion, we governed. We eliminated this flawed formula and worked together to create a better health care system. A system that provides certainty for Eastern Washington seniors, children, and low-income families, and a system that saves taxpayer dollars while improving care. These broad, patient-centered reforms are a testament to the work we can do for the American people – the men and women who make this country great. “In this spirit, as a proud member of the Energy and Commerce Committee’s Health Subcommittee, I look forward to continuing my efforts to advance 21st Century Cures – legislation which will further medical innovation and accelerate the discovery of cures. While the debate over how people access quality and affordable health care in this country is ongoing, today marks a step towards strengthening the future of Medicare reform, and a step towards helping people in Eastern Washington access care.” The legislation moves the way Medicare pays doctors towards a system which rewards value and patient outcomes over quantity, and it returns stability to physician payments by extending all of the extenders included in the Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014 in addition to funding Community Health Centers through 2017. The legislation also makes modifications to the Medicare’s competitive bidding program for durable medical equipment, and strengthens Medicare’s ability to fight fraud. H.R. 2 strengthens the future of Medicare by adjusting how premiums are calculated in Parts B and D and making reforms to the rules which regulate Medigap, a type of Medicare supplemental insurance.
03.25.2015	“Every day, people across Eastern Washington look at their finances, weigh their priorities, and live within their means. It’s time for the federal government to do the same thing.” WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today after the House passed the FY 2016 Budget Resolution, A Balanced Budget for a Stronger America. “Every day, people across Eastern Washington sit down at their kitchen tables and balance their families’ budget. They look at their finances, weigh their priorities, and live within their means. It’s time for the federal government to do the same. Today I voted for a budget that highlights our vision of ‘government for the people’ – one that stands in direct contrast to President Obama’s path forward. Our budget is the first step toward putting our country back on a fiscally responsible track – by balancing in less than ten years with no new taxes, and ensuring taxpayer dollars are spent more responsibly and efficiently. President Obama’s budget doesn’t balance, and punishes hard working Americans by raises taxes even more. Our budget secures a strong national defense – while the President’s lacks the adequate funding our military needs. Our budget repeals Obamacare, and puts health care decisions back in the hands of Eastern Washington families and our seniors. Five years into the President’s costly health care law, the need for a solution has never been more apparent. “For our country’s economy to grow, we must have a strong foundation. Our budget provides the healthy roots American families need to feel secure and empowered. Today, I joined my colleagues in passing a budget that counteracts the President’s costly and out-of-touch policies and provides a solution that will make people’s lives better.” By eliminating over $5 trillion in spending, the budget creates a healthier economy, reduces waste, fraud and abuse, and makes government more efficient and accountable for people in Eastern Washington. It strengthens Medicare by making structural improvements to save the program, including the establishment of a premium support program in Medicare to empower seniors and give them more choices. The program supports competition among insurance providers, and will begin in 2024 – meaning it will not impact people in or nearing retirement. The Balanced Budget for a Stronger America cuts $2 trillion in Obamacare spending, repeals Obamacare’s Medicaid expansion, and grants flexibility to the States so the program can better serve those it is intended to benefit. State Flexibility Funds give states like Washington greater freedom to build the most effective programs for their communities. The budget provides for a strong national defense through funding of troop training, equipment and compensation. Additionally, it advocates for sensible reforms to ensure the solvency of the Highway Trust Fund while at the same time providing flexibility for a surface-transportation reauthorization that does not increase the deficit. Click here to watch the Congresswoman’s video about the positive impact the budget will have on Eastern Washington.
02.26.2015	McMorris Rodgers Announces New Funding for Spokane Senior Volunteers YMCA of the Inland Northwest one of 233 organizations to receive funding nationwide WASHINGTON, DC –Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today announced that the YMCA of the Inland Northwest received a $101,716 grant to support Eastern Washington senior volunteer activities from the Corporation of National and Community Service (CNCS). “I’m honored to recognize the outstanding commitment to service in Spokane and the entire state of Washington. YMCA of the Inland Northwest volunteers are making a real difference in our community, and I can think of no better way to give back. RSVP of Spokane County provides senior volunteers to organizations throughout the county and strengthens our schools, day care centers, food banks, health care centers, and senior centers. These volunteers are making a real difference in people’s lives.” The Congresswoman also offered her congratulations to the five additional Washington organizations that received RSVP funding: Lower Columbia Community Action Council; the Human Services Council; Central Washington University; Yakima Valley Community College; Catholic Community Services of Western Washington. These grants were awarded as part of a competitive grant process for RSVP, one of three Senior Corps programs administered by CNCS. Established in 1971, RSVP engages older Americans in volunteer opportunities across the country. These volunteers have been a critical resource for nationwide response efforts—in everything from hunger prevention to natural disasters. Senior Corps is a program of the Corporation of National and Community Service, a federal agency that engages more than five million Americans of all ages and backgrounds in service each year through its Senior Corps, AmeriCorps, and Social Innovation Fund programs. For more information, visit nationalservice.gov.
02.25.2015	WASHINGTON D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today after the House passed H.R. 1020, theSTEM Education Act of 2015, which redefines science, technology, engineering and mathematics-related education to also include computer science. This bill also encourages further research on extra-curricular STEM programs. “By 2020, it’s estimated there will be 1.4 million jobs in the computing field. Yet despite these vast opportunities, computer science is still not recognized as a STEM subject. As a longtime supporter of STEM education, today I voted to rectify this, redefining STEM education to include computer science so students in Eastern Washington can pursue the training they need succeed. This bill also encourages out-of-school programs that support STEM education, so educational opportunities can continue after students leave the classroom. Today I voted to invest in our future leaders, innovators and entrepreneurs – and America’s ‘Opportunity Economy’ will be better and brighter because of it.” TheSTEM Education Act of 2015 defines STEM education to include academic subjects that build on the subjects of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics, including computer science. It directs the National Science Foundation (NSF) to continue to award competitive, merit-based grants to support innovative out-of-school STEM learning. It also amends the Noyce Scholarship Program to allow teachers with a bachelor’s degree working toward a master’s degree to participate in the program. As a part of her efforts to advance STEM education, the Congresswoman supported the Brooks-Polis Computer Science Amendment in the Student Success Act of 2013.
02.05.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today after introducingH.R. 678, the 21st Century Classroom Innovation Act, which encourages the use of blended learning in the classroom. “As the mom of three young children, I’ve seen firsthand how technology in the classroom can transform education. In the past few years we’ve seen an increase in the number of schools integrating technology – and these personalized learning tools are empowering students to reach new heights,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “By giving schools in Eastern Washington and across the country the choice to incorporate technology into their lesson plans, we will help our nation’s students reach their full potential and succeed in the 21st century.” The 21st Century Classroom Innovation Act will enable state education agencies to recognize blended learning pilot programs at the local level, allowing fully integrated technology instruction to better support personalized instruction for all students. Participating schools will demonstrate improved students’ assessed outcomes by using actionable data from students’ work.
01.30.2015	Washington, DC– Today Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-LA), Rep. Erik Paulsen (R-MN), and Senator David Vitter (R-LA) released the following statement after introducing the Steve Gleason Act of 2015 in the House, which ensures patients have access to speech generating devices (SGDs). This technology allows millions of Americans with degenerative and crippling medical conditions to communicate with the outside world. This commonsense legislation reverses shortsighted policy changes made by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) that have limited access to this technology and made communication impossible for individuals suffering from degenerative conditions. “We live in a 21st-centuryworld in which innovative technologies empower millions of Americans living with degenerative disabilities to effectively communicate. Unfortunately, shortsighted and cumbersome CMS policies have limited their ability to benefit from tools that help lead to independent, productive lives. After hearing from the ALS community, including Steve Gleason, an individual whose perseverance and commitment to expanding access to speech generating devices is inspiring, we continue our efforts to advocate for these men and women in Congress. All Americans living with ALS and other degenerative diseases should have the opportunity to communicate with family, friends, care providers and the outside world, and this legislation will make that a possibility. It will help millions of men and women utilize technologies that can tremendously improve their quality of life. Together we are united in standing up for all people who are suffering from these CMS policies.” The Steve Gleason Act of 2015 will reverse CMS’s capped rental policy, allowing patients to own their devices and continue to use them in facilities such as nursing homes. Additionally, it clarifies that Medicare will cover eye tracking and gaze interaction accessories for patients with demonstrated medical needs. In September 2014, Representatives McMorris Rodgers, Scalise, Paulsen and Senator Vitter were joined by 200 Members in sending a bipartisan, bicameral letter to CMS and Administrator Marilyn Tavenner seeking an explanation for policy changes, including the prevention of unlocking of SGD devices. CMS responded by showing a willingness to modernize their regulations to allow beneficiaries to benefit from new technologies that give individuals the ability to communicate on state of the art devices in ways never thought possible. While it is encouraging the Administration has made an effort to work with Congress by opening a new National Coverage Determination (NCD), the NCD process will take an additional seven months, while CMS’s capped rental policy and directives on coverage of eye tracking accessories continue to disproportionately and presently affect patients who rely on speech generating devices. The goal of this legislation is to help patients right away who have currently lost the ability to use these devices due to these regulations. In January 2011, Steve Gleason, a former New Orleans Saints player, was diagnosed with Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS). He has since been confined to a wheel chair and has lost his ability to speak. Steve has used the same perseverance he exhibited on the football field with this disease and has made it his mission to expand access to the speech generating device that he uses to communicate with his wife, son, family, friends, and caregivers. Since his diagnosis he formed a foundation, “Team Gleason,” which helps provide individuals with neuromuscular diseases with leading edge technology, and create a global conversation about ALS to ultimately find effective treatments and a cure.
01.08.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) issued the following statement today after the House passed H.R. 30, the Save American Workers (SAW) Act of 2015: “We begin the first week of America’s New Congress by empowering people across Eastern Washington that have seen their paychecks cut because of Obamacare’s harmful 30-hour rule. These are moms and dads working to make ends meet, college graduates earning their first paychecks, and cafeteria workers struggling to pay their bills. Today I acted to help them. To protect their hours and wages by replacing Obamacare’s full-time definition with the traditional 40-hour work week. At a time when many Eastern Washington men and women are struggling to stay on their feet, this common-sense, bipartisan legislation will expand the opportunity for employees to work more hours – resulting in more take-home pay and financial security. This is one of many meaningful solutions brought forth by America’s New Congress to help people all across this country.” The Save the American Workers Act repeals Obamacare’s 30-hour work week definition of “full-time employment” and restores the traditional definition of a 40-hour work week, restoring wages and hours for Eastern Washington men and women.
01.07.2015	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In a House Republican press conference today, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) discussed the new opportunities for the people of Eastern Washington being brought forth in the new Congress Remarks as Prepared for Delivery: “Good morning! Today marks an important beginning. The beginning of a new year, a new Congress, and for people in every corner of this country. This is the first week of America’s New Congress, and we’re already putting forward solutions to get people back to work, promote our veterans, expand energy production, and help middle-class Americans bring home more take-home pay. And these solutions are just the beginning – the beginning of a Congress that will be both bold and unwavering in its commitment to help the American people. “Last night, my husband and three kids joined me as I took my sixth oath of office to serve the people of Eastern Washington in Congress. And as I took that oath, I was reminded of why we are all here: to advance solutions that makes people’s lives better. And that is our vision for America’s New Congress.” Click Here to Watch Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers’ Remarks
01.06.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) issued the following statement today after the House passed H.R. 22, the Hire More Heroes Act, which will make it easier for veterans to find good-paying, high-quality jobs by exempting those covered by VA or TRICARE from Obamacare’s employer mandate. “Our nation’s heroes have endured great challenges – and for too many veterans, that includes finding good-paying, high-quality jobs. The President’s health care law has crippled Eastern Washington businesses which are eager to hire our heroes, but stymied because of the red-tape and high costs of Obamacare’s employer mandate. The Hire More Heroes Act is a commonsense, bipartisan solution that makes it easier to employ hard-working veterans in our community by exempting them from the employer mandate that limits small businesses from growing. “Our military men and women have made the ultimate sacrifice, and I’m proud that the first action of America’s New Congress is to give back to them, while also repealing another detrimental part of Obamacare. This is the first of many solutions we will advance in America’s New Congress for families in Eastern Washington.”
01.05.2015	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) issued the following statement today after President Obama signed the Stephen Beck, Jr. Achieving a Better Life Experience (ABLE) Act of 2014 into law. “Today marks the beginning of a new chapter for millions of Americans with disabilities – one of opportunity, independence and empowerment. Together, we have spoken to give those with disabilities – like my 7-year-old son, Cole – a better life. A life in which those with special needs are not limited by the challenges they face, but empowered because of them. As the mom of a son with Down syndrome, my heart is full – because I know firsthand how federal policies can limit the opportunities for those with disabilities. The ABLE Act will change that. “This bipartisan law will empower individuals in Eastern Washington and all across America – through tax-free savings accounts – to save for college, retirement, and other future expenses. As part of America’s New Congress, we are here to advance real solutions. Solutions that make people’s lives better. Solutions that empower all Americans – no matter where they come from or how much money they make or what challenges they face. I applaud the late Steve Beck and the disability groups that have advocated, for so many years, to secure passage of legislation that is as commonsense as it is compassionate. It will empower millions – like my son, Cole – with the opportunity to have a better life. And that is why we are here.” To watch Chair McMorris Rodgers’s remarks on the House floor, click here.
12.09.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) issued the following statement today after the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform held a hearing to examine the lack of transparency in the President's health care law. The hearing included testimony from Dr. Jonathan Gruber, an economist who has been recognized as one of the main architects of the President's health care law. "Today's Oversight hearing further reinforced the failed implementation of the President's health care law. Obamacare architect Jonathan Gruber called the American voters 'stupid' and attributed the passage of Obamacare to 'a lack of government transparency.' People in Eastern Washington deserve an explanation – they deserve to know why they couldn't keep their health care plans under Obamacare. They deserve to know if Obamacare was deliberately drafted in a way that purposefully obscured its massive tax hikes from families in our community. And they deserve to know how many of their hard-earned tax dollars were being paid to Mr. Gruber and other Obamacare architects while they produced work that concealed the real impact of the health care law. I look forward to working with my colleagues to get the answers men and women in Eastern Washington deserve." ###
12.09.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement on the Food and Drug Administration’s recently announced expansive menu regulations: “The Food and Drug Administration has acted recklessly, mandating regulations without considering the impact they will have on Eastern Washington employees, business owners, and on our local economy. Adhering to these burdensome requirements will be extremely costly – in both time and resources – for local restaurants, delivery chains, and movie theaters, and they will stifle growth at grocery stores like Yokes and Rosauers. This proposal is one of the most expensive regulations ever – with expected costs being over $1.2 billion with 498,508 hours of paperwork. "As local supermarkets like Rosauers innovate and grow, every deli and salad bar offering – which are constantly changing – would have to endure costly tests to provide required labeling. And for pizzerias like Domino's, every potential toppings combination – well over 5 million options – would have to be calculated and publicized. This requirement is simply not workable. Additionally, these costs and responsibilities fall not on the FDA, but instead on the shoulders of independent franchise owners. The FDA’s action suffocates the innovative potential of the food industry, making it harder for local businesses to expand and grow from the bottom up. Finally, overreaching federal regulations are hitting America's middle class where it hurts the most: their wallets. "These regulations go far beyond original legislative intent, epitomizing the federal government's habit of bureaucratic overreach. It is our responsibility to reverse the overbearing regulations of powerful government agencies, and represent the needs of American entrepreneurs. I will continue to advocate for the principles contained in H.R. 1249, the Common Sense Nutrition Disclosure Act of 2013, which include reasonable, commonsense nutritional reforms that don't hurt business owners and middle class families in Eastern Washington with unnecessary costs."
12.08.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the President signed the bipartisan H.R. 4067, which provides for the extension of the enforcement instruction on supervision requirements for outpatient therapeutic services in critical access and small rural hospitals through 2014, into law last week. It will help Eastern Washington patients receive care in critical access and small rural hospitals. “I’m pleased Republicans and Democrats are working together to advocate for people in rural communities like ours, because unworkable government mandates shouldn’t prevent patients from accessing outpatient therapeutic services. Now that bipartisan legislation guaranteeing access to care has been signed into law, patients across Eastern Washington will continue to have access to low-risk outpatient services. I’m proud to support this smart solution, which ensures patients continue to receive quality treatment without interruption.” Over 46 million Americans in rural communities depend on critical access and small rural hospitals, and this law will delay the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) mandate regarding “direct supervision” of outpatient services for the rest of the year. This CMS policy would require a supervising physician be physically present in the department when Medicare beneficiaries receive these services. It delays the enforcement of this policy for critical access and small rural hospitals with fewer than 100 beds.
12.03.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today after the passage of H.R. 5771, the Tax Increase Prevention Act, which provides American taxpayers certainty and includes over 50 provisions of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC) to help small businesses and individuals succeed. “Looking ahead it is critical we pass comprehensive tax reform in order to provide both permanence and lasting certainty to Eastern Washington taxpayers. That being said, this legislation enables local small businesses to create new jobs, helps Eastern Washington manufacturers invest in new advancements, and creates new possibilities for moms and dads to get ahead – providing certainty for thousands of people across our state. “It helps our community expand hydropower generation, providing support for this important renewable energy, and it helps Washington state residents keep more of their hard-earned income – empowering Eastern Washington to reach new heights.” The Tax Increase Prevention Act extends, for one year, numerous tax relief provisions that expired at the end of calendar year 2013 or during 2014, preventing tax increases on millions of families and businesses. It includes provisions to extend through 2014 the research and development(R&D) tax credit, which helps Eastern Washington manufacturers expand and grow. Additionally it provides an extension of credit for nonbusiness energy property in Eastern Washington. The Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT) estimates that these provisions will reduce revenues by $44.7 billion over the ten-year budget window.
12.03.2014	WASHINGTON, DC– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) issued the following statement today after the House passed H.R. 647, the bipartisan Achieving a Better Life Experience (ABLE) Act, which allows individuals with disabilities to save for their futures through the creation of tax-free savings accounts. “Tonight the House spoke for millions of Americans with disabilities. We spoke to give them a better life; to provide them with greater opportunities; and to empower them to reach their full potential. As the mom of a seven-year old son with Down syndrome, today my heart is full – because I know firsthand how federal policies can limit the opportunities for those with disabilities. The ABLE Act will change that. “This overwhelmingly bipartisan bill will empower individuals across Eastern Washington – through tax-free savings accounts – to save for college, retirement, and other future expenses. As part of America’s New Congress, we are here to advance real solutions. Solutions that make people’s lives better. Solutions that empowerall Americans – no matter where they come from or how much money they make or what challenges they face. I applaud the many disability groups that have advocated, for so many years, to secure passage of legislation that is as commonsense as it is compassionate. It will empower millions – like my son, Cole – with the opportunity to have a better life. Andthat is why we are here.” The ABLE Act encourages tax-free savings for qualified expenses such as education, housing and transportation by amending Section 529 of the Internal Revenue Code, working just like a 529 education savings plan. To view Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers’s Floor Statement, click here.
11.21.2014	Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today after passage of H. Res. 754, Condemning the Government of Iran for its gross human rights violations, and the upcoming P5+1 deadline on Iran’s nuclear program. “Today, the House condemned the inhumane actions of the Iranian government — including its violence against women and religious minorities. As our relationship with Iran moves forward, we must hold them accountable for their actions toward their own citizens, as well as their treatment of existing international covenants. As the deadline for a pivotal accord regarding Iran’s nuclear program approaches, I reaffirm my unwavering support for a deal that ensures a verifiable end to Iran’s pursuit of nuclear weapons. Our agreement must include a rigorous and immediate inspections regime, one designed to halt Iranian nuclear capabilities both now and in the future. As Chair of the House Republican Conference, I will do everything I can to ensure that Iran no longer remains on the precipice of a nuclear state and that sanctions continue to be imposed on a regime that both harbors and finances terrorist organizations. “As we continue to engage in these talks, it is imperative to understand the reality of the regime with which we are negotiating. It is one that seeks power through the destruction of democracy and the obliteration of Israel. It seeks power through the abominable human rights violations it continues to commit against its own people. And it seeks power by propping up Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s regime, prolonging the civil war in Syria and allowing ISIL to flourish as a result. Iran has made its position unmistakably clear: it stands in opposition to transparency, respect for human rights, and global and regional security. And so we must act. We must do so not only with our words, but with our actions. The Administration’s strategy must be bold and it must be firm. It must include a meaningful consultation with Congress. And it must be unequivocal in its opposition to a nuclear Iran.”
11.20.2014	WASHINGTON, DC–Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) issued the following statement tonight after President Obama’s announcement to act unilaterally on immigration reform. “Tonight the President articulated his plan to act unilaterally on one of the most significant issues facing America: the future of 11 million undocumented immigrants in our country. His decision to act alone blatantly disregards the will of the American people: for their elected leaders to work together and enact effective, long-term solutions that make people’s lives better. Tonight the President has done exactly the opposite. He has revealed that his own desire for unilateral action trumps the democratic process upon which this country was founded. “When it comes to fixing our broken immigration system, the American people want a permanent solution, not a quick fix. They want the most effective solution, not the most expeditious one. They want their elected leaders to come together, transcend partisan divisions, and advance real, common-sense solutions. Make no mistake: I will work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle – and I will listen to the American people – to get immigration reform right. I urge the President to join us in that effort.”
11.20.2014	WASHINGTON, DC–Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) issued the following statement tonight after President Obama’s announcement to act unilaterally on immigration reform. “Tonight the President articulated his plan to act unilaterally on one of the most significant issues facing America: the future of 11 million undocumented immigrants in our country. His decision to act alone blatantly disregards the will of the American people: for their elected leaders to work together and enact effective, long-term solutions that make people’s lives better. Tonight the President has done exactly the opposite. He has revealed that his own desire for unilateral action trumps the democratic process upon which this country was founded. “When it comes to fixing our broken immigration system, the American people want a permanent solution, not a quick fix. They want the most effective solution, not the most expeditious one. They want their elected leaders to come together, transcend partisan divisions, and advance real, common-sense solutions. Make no mistake: I will work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle – and I will listen to the American people – to get immigration reform right. I urge the President to join us in that effort.”
11.19.2014	WASHINGTON, DC– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today after the House passed legislation to create a more transparent Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), including H.R. 1422, the EPA Science Advisory Board Reform Act of 2013, and H.R. 4012, the Secret Science Reform Act of 2014, of which she is an original co-sponsor. “Any and all EPA-produced guidelines and regulations impacting Eastern Washington jobs must be fair and balanced, and through this critical legislation we are holding the agency accountable for the proposals it introduces. By increasing transparency within the EPA, we are enabling more public participation from stakeholders and involved parties throughout Eastern Washington – because their thoughts and ideas should be paramount to the discussion regarding job creation at home. We must hold the EPA accountable, and must ensure regulations impacting our local economy be based on scientific fact.” The EPA Science Advisory Board Reform Act of 2013 makes changes to the EPA’s Science Advisory Board (SAB) to increase public participation, increase the transparency for selecting advisors, and ensure the SAB remains focused on science. The Secret Science Reform Act of 2014 requires the EPA to base its regulations on data that is public, ending costly EPA rulemaking from happening behind closed doors and out of public view. ###
11.18.2014	WASHINGTON, DC– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today after the Senate passed S. 1086, the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 2014, which is part of her package of bills to empower families at work and home. “Tonight the Senate sent the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 2014 to the President’s desk, marking a significant victory for working families in Eastern Washington. This bill, with its commonsense reforms, reflects the dynamics of a changing, 21st-century workforce, and is yet another solution to help working families create better lives. As we continue to empower moms and dads both at work and at home, we build more opportunities for families in the Pacific Northwest and in every corner of America." S. 1086 includes these conservative reforms that strengthen the Child Care Development Block Grant Program: ·Enhances parental choice by providing information about available care options from all providers, including faith-based and community-based providers, and allowing parents to choose the child care provider that best suits their family’s needs. · Strengthens safety in child care settings by requiring all providers to comply with state health, safety, and fire standards and undergo annual inspections. ###
11.12.2014	Washington, DC –Today Representatives Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Erik Paulsen (R-MN), and Representative John Tierney (R-MA) and Senator Susan Collins (R-ME) released the following statement regarding the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services’ (CMS) decision to reconsider how speech generating devices (SGDs) are covered.In September, Representatives McMorris Rodgers, Tierney, and Paulsen and Senator Collins spearheaded a bipartisan letter to CMS requesting an explanation for policy changes affecting the coverage of these devices, which impacted millions of Americans living with neurological and degenerative disabilities. “We are happy to see CMS acknowledge the fact that 21st Century technology is changing lives by enabling millions of Americans to communicate with their loved ones, their medical providers, and the rest of the outside world – because without this technology, their degenerative and crippling medical conditions made communication impossible. This decision marks a step in the right direction, and hopefully a step towards CMS embracing modern innovation in their coverage and payment decisions. “Still, there is much more work to be done – and we urge CMS to address the other issues we raised in our September letter, such as how CMS’s capped rental policy disproportionately affects patients who rely on speech generating devices.Together we will continue to advocate for this community, and we are hopeful CMS will continue to support these life-changing technologies.” Last week CMS instructed Medicare contractors to rescind their coverage reminder and coding review, which was impacting Medicare patients’ ability to both “unlock” their SGDs and use their own money to add on functionalities to help lead productive lives. CMS’s recent decision to open a new coverage determination for SGDs will consider how the technology and use of augmentative and alternative communication devices by patients to meet their medical needs has changed significantly since the last coverage determination in 2001. Today, thanks to 21st century technology, patients can use speech devices for a wide range of purposes not previously possible, such as tele-health and email.Patients living with cerebral palsy, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Rett Syndrome, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson’s disease, brain stem stroke, locked-in syndrome, and traumatic brain injury are affected by these changes. In September Representatives McMorris Rodgers, Tierney, Paulsen and Senator Collins were joined by 200 legislators who signed onto a bipartisan letter to CMS and Administrator Marilyn Tavenner. ###
11.07.2014	McMorris Rodgers Calls for Explanation Behind Reduced Hours at the Spokane VA Emergency Department WASHINGTON DC–Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) sent a letter today to Department of Veterans Affairs Secretary Robert McDonald seeking an explanation for the recent reduction of hours at the Spokane VA Emergency Department. This week the Mann-Grandstaff VA Medical Center announced starting December 1, 2014 the Emergency Department’s hours will go from 24/7 to 8:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. and that the Spokane VA will no longer accept patient emergencies via ambulance. “The veterans in our community have made innumerable sacrifices to protect and defend our country, and we show these heroes our appreciation by providing them quality and compassionate treatment. That’s why I’m troubled by the proposed changes at the Spokane VA, which limit veterans’ access to care. We must take every action to keep our veterans in Eastern Washington safe, and I urge Secretary McDonald to provide clarification about how these decisions were made. The needs of our heroes must always come first – today and every day –and my commitment to our veterans remains steadfast.” The Congresswoman’s letter to Secretary McDonald is attached and pasted below. ### The Honorable Robert A. McDonald Secretary Department of Veterans Affairs 810 Vermont Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20420 Dear Secretary McDonald: I would like to congratulate you on your recent confirmation—I know you are committed to caring for our nation’s veterans and I look forward with working with you. Earlier this week, the Mann-Grandstaff VA Medical Center in Spokane, Washington announced changes in the operations of the Emergency Department. Specifically, starting December 1, 2014, the Emergency Department’s hours of operation will be curtailed from 24/7 to 8:00 am -6:00 pm, seven days per week. Additionally, the Mann-Grandstaff VA Medical Center will not accept patient emergencies via ambulance. Our veterans, our nation’s heroes, have made innumerable sacrifices to protect and defend our country. One way to demonstrate our appreciation is by providing them with quality and compassionate care and treatment. However, there is a crisis of confidence on the part of many veterans in Eastern Washington and across our nation who no longer feel that the VA is willing and able to provide them with timely care. As the Department of Veterans Affairs seeks to rebuild this trust, I have concerns with the proposed changes at the Mann-Grandstaff VA Medical Center and am writing to seek further clarification about how this decision was made. Specifically: 1. What actions prompted the Mann-Grandstaff VA Medical Center to reduce the Emergency Department’s hours? 2. What numbers or data did the Mann-Grandstaff VA Medical Center use as justification for the reduction in the Emergency Department’s hours? 3. Did the Mann-Grandstaff VA Medical Center seek counsel from representatives within the VISN 20 network or from anyone in Washington, D.C. before making this decision? 4. For families who take their veterans to the Emergency Department at the Mann-Grandstaff VA Medical Center during the nighttime hours, will there be an ambulance available to transport the veterans to another community hospital? 5. In the event that a veteran obtains emergency care in the community as a result of the reduction in the Emergency Department’s hours, will the Department of Veterans Affairs cover the cost of care? If so, what will be the process for the impacted veteran to recover the cost of care they received outside of the VA? As we prepare to recognize and honor Eastern Washington’s veterans on Tuesday-Veterans Day, I want to make certain that those who have served our country receive the care, support, and benefits that they were promised and that they have earned. I look forward to hearing your response. Sincerely, Cathy McMorris Rodgers Member of Congress
10.17.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) issued the following statement today after President Obama appointed Ron Klain to serve as the Administration’s Ebola response coordinator. “We must do everything possible to protect the American people from the growing and life-threatening risk of Ebola. As more cases are diagnosed, especially in light of the recent reports, I expect the Administration and Centers for Disease Control (CDC) to act swiftly and aggressively to not only combat this epidemic, but also gain the trust and confidence of the American people every step of the way. A biosecurity threat of this nature requires a comprehensive strategy across multiple federal agencies – not just a single official. “I urge the Administration to consider immediate travel restrictions – such as visa bans for non-US nationals in the West African countries most impacted – in addition to making sure the CDC and other agencies have the resources they need to train and equip health care professionals to fight this virulent disease. I will continue to advance efforts to assist the Administration’s response to combat the Ebola outbreak – including the recent approval of $750 million to support Operation United Assistance, the Department of Defense-led mission. This is a public health emergency – and it should be met with aggressive, coordinated, and immediate action.” Please visit this timeline of actions taken in the House to assist and assess the government's response to the Ebola outbreak. ###
09.18.2014	SPOKANE, WA – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) will host a ‘Conversation with Cathy’ in Cheney next week. The Congresswoman looks forward to hearing from members of the community so she can bring their thoughts and ideas to Congress. She will give an update on the work she is doing to create better opportunities for Eastern Washington men and women. Friday, September 26, 2014 9:30 AM to 10:30 AM City of Cheney, Multi-Purpose Room 615 4th Street Venue Entrance, Wren Pierson Building Any further questions can be directed to the Spokane office at 509-353-2374 ###
09.18.2014	Remarks by Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) on the House floor prior to passage of Amendment #3 to H.J. Res. 124, which fulfills the President's request to train and equip vetted Syrian forces against the terrorist group ISIL: "Mr. Speaker, I rise in support of the Chairman's amendment and stand ready to work with my colleagues and the President on a long term strategy to dismantle and destroy ISIL. Last week, the President's address to the country began to make the case that ISIL is an immediate threat to our allies in the Middle East, Europe, and ultimately our homeland. This is a radical and brutal force opposed to all who do no adhere to their narrow view of Islam and the world. ISIL has declared war on our way of life and the values on which our country was founded and has flourished for over 235 years. In fact, ISIL has made clear they will not be deterred until they see their flag flying over the White House. "When it comes to protecting the safety and security of Americans at home and abroad, Americans must lead. As we know, a speech is not a plan. An F-18 is not a strategy. As the Commander in Chief, we need the President to give us an honest assessment and an in-depth strategy to defend the country and our interests around the world. This amendment responds to the President's request to use title 10 authority to train and equip vetted Syrian opposition forces. General Dempsey, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, called it a necessary but not sufficient step. Beyond the amendment and the President's limited request, the American people need to see a plan clearly articulated with a strategy to dismantle and destroy ISIL. "When we look around the world today, we see instability and numerous threats. The spread of radical Islam throughout the globe is more pervasive Iran continues to move toward a nuclear weapon. Russia continues to take aggressive action toward the Baltic states. I support this amendment because America must lead. As we've seen, when America sits idle on the sidelines, there's a leadership void which is filled by bad actors. I urge my colleagues to join us in taking this action. I yield back the balance of my time." ###
09.16.2014	WASHINGTON, DC– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today after the House passed S. 1086, the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 2014. “Today the House acted to protect and empower working families all across this country. As the mom of three young children, and the representative of thousands of working parents in Eastern Washington, I know how important it is to find safe and reliable child care services for our kids. And right now – when too many moms and dads are struggling to pay their bills and make ends meet – American families need security. They need options. And they need solutions. This bipartisan legislation improves and modernizes our child care services while giving parents the peace of mind they need when they say goodbye to their kids every morning. It strengthens the safety of existing child care facilities. And it makes life better for hardworking parents. As this bill heads to the President’s desk, we celebrate a huge victory for families in every corner of this country.” ###
09.16.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement in response to a new report published by the independent Government Accountability Office (GAO). The report finds the Obama Administration has knowingly disregarded bipartisan policy that prevented taxpayer funded elective abortion. “The American people deserve an Administration committed to carrying out the law – not usurping it. Disappointingly, today’s report marks one more example of the President’s disregard for the law and for hard-earned taxpayer dollars. For decades, both Republicans and Democrats have believed that taxpayer dollars should not fund elective abortion. Yet this report highlights Obamacare’s unlawful dismissal of these bipartisan measures. “We must come together to protect hardworking taxpayers across the country, which is why I was proud to support bipartisan legislation that corrects this abuse – and I am hopeful the Senate will take up this important legislation. We must put an end to this unacceptable executive overreach.” The GAO report, released this morning, finds that American taxpayer dollars are funding abortion under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Earlier this year, Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers voted in favor of H.R. 7, the No Taxpayer Funding for Abortion Act, which protects taxpayer dollars from funding elective abortion. ###
09.12.2014	WASHINGTON, DC– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today to mark the anniversary of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks. “It is with heavy hearts that we reflect on America’s darkest day. We remember the firefighters who ran in to those burning buildings instead of away from them. We remember the faces of those searching for those they loved. We remember the flames and the debris and the fear. We will never forget the fear. But let us also reflect on the selflessness of strangers; the courage of our first-responders; and the prayers that were echoed in silence around the world. From great destruction came unwavering resolve. Today we remember what makes us all proud to be Americans: an unshakable spirit that can endure even the greatest and darkest of evils.”
09.12.2014	WASHINGTON, DC– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) applauded the passage of H.R. 4067, which provides for the extension of the enforcement instruction on supervision requirements for outpatient therapeutic services in critical access and small rural hospitals through 2014. The legislation helps Eastern Washington patients receive care in critical access and small rural hospitals. “Growing up in Eastern Washington, I know firsthand the challenges rural communities face when it comes to accessing health care. Right now, it’s too hard for those in rural areas to receive quality health care because too many government mandates stand in the way. This legislationaddresses one of those unnecessarily burdensome mandates. It ensures that those in rural hospitals have full access to outpatient therapeutic services. The patients who rely on Eastern Washington’s rural hospitals for life-saving treatments and procedures must be protected – with fewer regulations and smarter legislation.” Over 46 million Americans in rural communities depend on critical access and small rural hospitals, and this legislation delays the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) mandate regarding “direct supervision” of outpatient services for the rest of the year. This CMS policy would require a supervising physician be physically present in the department when Medicare beneficiaries receive these services. H.R. 4067 delays the enforcement of this policyfor critical access and small rural hospitals with fewer than 100 beds.
09.12.2014	Washington, DC – Today Representatives Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), John Tierney (D-MA), and Erik Paulsen (R-MN), and Senator Susan Collins (R-ME) sent a bipartisan, bicameral letter to the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) requesting an explanation for recent policy changes impacting millions of Americans living with neurological and degenerative disabilities. They released the following statement on these changes, which limit patient access to speech generating devices (SGDs) . “Americans rely on these innovative technologies as their only means to continue communicating with family, friends, and the outside world, but CMS’s recent actions are now limiting their ability to benefit from these tools that help lead to independent, productive lives. After hearing from numerous individuals living with ALS and other degenerative disabilities, we urge CMS to explain its shortsighted policy decisions. Together we stand with the millions of Americans living with degenerative disabilities who are being impacted. We must empower men and women with the opportunity to utilize 21st century technologies that can have a tremendous impact on their quality of life.” These changes by CMS impact patient access to speech generating devices, including eye tracking technology, which is often the only option for those with advanced degenerative conditions. Patients living with cerebral palsy, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), Rett Syndrome, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson’s disease, brain stem stroke, locked-in syndrome, and traumatic brain injury are affected by these changes. This letter seeks an explanation from CMS for these revisions, which include the prevention of unlocking of SGD devices — which expand their functionality — when Medicare is not being asked to cover or pay for those expanded functionalities. Representatives McMorris Rodgers, Tierney, Paulsen and Senator Collins were joined by 200 legislators who signed onto this bipartisan letter to CMS and Administrator Marilyn Tavenner.
09.04.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement announcing retired Air Force service member and longtime veterans advocate John Davis as her new Veterans and Military Outreach Liaison. “I am both humbled and honored to welcome John Davis to my team. Over the past four decades, John has dedicated his life to serving our country, our military, and our veterans, and his compassion for the Eastern Washington veteran community has impacted countless lives. “Simply put, in his new role John is working every day to help veterans in our community – be it by assisting them with their claims and records, or providing them support and information about how to navigate the VA system. He joins my office in furthering our commitment to the men and women who have served our nation so dutifully. I am inspired by the work John has done to assist homeless veterans, and am confident this new role will leave a lasting impact on the veterans and service members in Eastern Washington.” John enlisted in the Air Force in 1968, and has served in the Philippines, Okinawa, Korea, Japan, Thailand, Alaska, Antarctica, New Mexico, and at Fairchild Air Force Base, in the 92 Munitions Maintenance Squadron. While assigned to Fairchild AFB, John graduated from Spokane Falls Community College and Eastern Washington University, where he studied counseling and sciences. He also attended Gonzaga University prior to earning his commission. In 2000, John accepted a job at the Spokane VAMC as the Health Care for Homeless Veterans Coordinator, and under his leadership the program grew from housing ten veterans in Spokane to one that housed more than 250 veterans and their family members. In 2010 he was awarded the “Secretary's Award of Outstanding Achievement" in Service to Homeless Veterans by a VA Organization and last year was named by the National Coalition for Homeless Veterans as the Outstanding Department of Veterans Affairs Staff Member. John lives in Stevens County with his wife of 43 years, Cho Sun Ae. ###
09.03.2014	SPOKANE, WA—Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers’ staff members are hosting monthly mobile office hours throughout Eastern Washington. Anyone who needs assistance with a federal agency or would like to voice an opinion on federal issues is encouraged to come by—no appointment necessary. McMorris Rodgers staff members will be at the following locations in May 2014: Tuesday, May 6 Colfax: Whitman County Courthouse, 400 North Main St, 9-11 AM Clarkston: SEWEDA Office, 845 Port Way, 2-4 PM Wednesday, May 7 Pomeroy: Garfield County Courthouse, 789 Main St, 9-11 AM Dayton: Port of Columbia County Office, 1 Port Way, 2-4 PM Tuesday, May 13 Newport: Pend Oreille County Court House, 625 W 4th St, 9-11 AM Davenport: Lincoln County Court House, Chambers Room, Logan St, 2-4 PM Wednesday, May 14 Republic: Northern Inn, 852 S Clark Ave, 11 AM – 1 PM
09.03.2014	SPOKANE, WA—Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers’ staff members are hosting monthly mobile office hours throughout Eastern Washington. Anyone who needs assistance with a federal agency or would like to voice an opinion about federal issues is encouraged to come by—no appointment necessary. McMorris Rodgers staff members will be at the following locations in June: Tuesday, June 3, 2014 Colfax: Whitman County Courthouse, 400 North Main St, 9-11 AM Clarkston: SEWEDA Office, 845 Port Way, 2-4 PM Wednesday, June 4, 2014 Pomeroy: Garfield County Courthouse, 789 Main St, 9-11 AM Dayton: Port of Columbia County Office, 1 Port Way, 2-4 PM Tuesday, June 10, 2014 Newport: Pend Oreille County Court House, 625 W 4th St, 9-11 AM Davenport: Lincoln County Court House, Chambers Room, Logan St, 2-4 PM Wednesday, June 11, 2014 Republic: Northern Inn, 852 S Clark Ave, 11 AM – 1 PM Any further questions can be directed to the Spokane office at 509-353-2374
09.03.2014	SPOKANE, WA—Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers’ staff members are hosting monthly mobile office hours throughout Eastern Washington. Anyone who needs assistance with a federal agency or would like to voice an opinion on federal issues is encouraged to come by—no appointment necessary. McMorris Rodgers staff members will be at the following locations in September 2014: Tuesday, September 2 Colfax: Whitman County Courthouse, 400 North Main St, 9-11 AM Clarkston: SEWEDA Office, 845 Port Way, 2-4 PM Wednesday, September 3 Pomeroy: Garfield County Courthouse, 789 Main St, 9-11 AM Dayton: Port of Columbia County Office, 1 Port Way, 2-4 PM Wednesday, September 10 Davenport: Lincoln County Court House, Chambers Room, Logan St, 2-4 PM *Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers’ Veterans’ Services staff member, John Davis, will be assisting veterans during the Mobile Office Hours in Davenport.* Any further questions can be directed to the Spokane office at 509-353-2374
08.19.2014	SPOKANE, WA – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) will host four ‘Conversation with Cathy’ events throughout Eastern Washington this week. The Congresswoman looks forward to hearing from the community so she can bring their thoughts and ideas to Congress. She will give an update on the work she is doing to create better opportunities for Eastern Washington men and women. Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers will host ‘Conversations with Cathy’ events at the following locations this week: Tuesday, August 19, 2014 Walla Walla: Conversation with Cathy for Veterans 2:00 – 3:00 PM City of College Place Council Chambers, 625 South College Avenue Wednesday, August 20, 2014 Dayton: Conversation with Cathy 11:30 AM – 12:30 PM Dayton Library Delaney Room, 111 South 3rd Street Wednesday, August 20, 2014 Clarkston: Conversation with Cathy 3:00 – 4:00 PM Clarkston Campus Auditorium, 1470 Bridge Street Friday, August 22, 2014 Colfax: Conversation with Cathy 10:00 AM – 11:00 AMWhitman County Public Service Building Auditorium, 310 North Main Street Any further questions can be directed to the Spokane office at 509-353-2374 ###
08.07.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – House Republican Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) issued the following statement today after the House voted to allocate an additional $225 million for Israel’s Iron Dome missile defense system. “There are no actions more atrocious and contemptible than intentional attacks against civilian populations — which is the hallmark of the Hamas terrorist gang. However, their barbarism is matched by Israeli ingenuity with Iron Dome, the Israel rocket interceptor. It has kept Hamas from terrorizing the brave Israeli civilian population. Hamas rockets aimed at Israel have been successfully destroyed by Iron Dome. Violence and terror are met by engineering and civilization. “To protect Israel – our greatest friend and ally in the Middle East – we must fund this vital missile defense system. Today the House has acted once again to stand shoulder to shoulder with Israel and provide critical emergency funding for the Iron Dome and protect the people of Israel as they defend themselves and their country. In the name of freedom and democracy, we must act.”
08.07.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – House Republican Conference Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) issued the following statement today after the House voted to allocate an additional $225 million for Israel’s Iron Dome missile defense system. “There are no actions more atrocious and contemptible than intentional attacks against civilian populations — which is the hallmark of the Hamas terrorist gang. However, their barbarism is matched by Israeli ingenuity with Iron Dome, the Israel rocket interceptor. It has kept Hamas from terrorizing the brave Israeli civilian population. Hamas rockets aimed at Israel have been successfully destroyed by Iron Dome. Violence and terror are met by engineering and civilization. “To protect Israel – our greatest friend and ally in the Middle East – we must fund this vital missile defense system. Today the House has acted once again to stand shoulder to shoulder with Israel and provide critical emergency funding for the Iron Dome and protect the people of Israel as they defend themselves and their country. In the name of freedom and democracy, we must act.”
08.07.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today after acting to address the border crisis. “We face a grave humanitarian and national security crisis at the border – and Americans in Eastern Washington and across this country are asking for leadership. They’re asking for solutions. And that’s what our legislation does: it provides a serious solution to a serious problem. Our plan reallocates $694 million to secure the border, provide emergency care, and prevent future arrivals. This will ensure that children are reunited with families in their home countries. Our solution addresses the problem humanely, effectively, and expeditiously. The crisis at the border demands our attention. It demands our action. And it demands our immediate and unwavering leadership.”
08.01.2014	WASHINGTON, DC– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after sending a letter to Secretary of Agriculture Thomas Vilsack expressing concern over stoppages to official grain inspections at the Port of Vancouver. “Wheat growers are at the heart of Eastern Washington’s economy, and the continual inefficiencies at the Port of Vancouver pose a threat to our longstanding export partnerships. In the Northwest, over 80 percent of our wheat is exported abroad – but these stoppages threaten to harm to our established trade with Asia and other parts of the world. This year’s wheat harvest is already underway, and our community’s farmers, grain handlers, and exporters rely on accurate, timely, and cost-effective mandated official grain inspection to support their livelihood. It is critical we assure our trading partners that the Port of Vancouver will continue to export a reliable supply of high-quality wheat – our local economy depends on it. “Together with my colleagues I urge the Federal Grain Inspection Service to take action today to provide the wheat growing community adequate inspection of wheat exports.” Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers led the letter to Secretary Vilsack. Her colleagues Representatives Doc Hastings (R-WA), Dave Reichert (R-WA), Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA), Greg Walden (R-OR), Mike Simpson (R-ID), Steve Daines (R-MT), Kevin Cramer (R-ND), Jackie Walorski (R-IN), and Raúl Labrador (R-ID) joined her in urging the Secretary’s swift action in restoring timely grain inspection.
08.01.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today after introducing H.R. 5303, the 21st Century Classroom Innovation Act, which encourages the use of blended learning in the classroom. “In the past few years we’ve seen an increase in the number of classrooms integrating technology – and these personalized learning tools are leading to tremendous academic performance. As the mom of three, I see firsthand how technology in the classroom transforms education. Now we’re taking this success to the next level – we’re making it possible for students in communities in Eastern Washington and across the country to experience blended learning. By fully incorporating technology into teachers’ lesson plans, elementary and secondary education possibilities are limitless – and academic results will improve, opening new doors for students. By arming students and teachers with education-focused technology, we are helping our nation’s students succeed in the 21st century and reach their full potential.” By allowing state education agencies to recognize blended learning pilot programs at the local level, fully integrated technology instruction will better support personalized instruction for all individual students. Participating schools will demonstrate improved students’ assessed outcomes by using actionable data from students’ work.
07.29.2014	WASHINGTON, DC– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) applauded the passage today of H.R. 4315, the Endangered Species Transparency and Reasonableness Act, which improves transparency and enhances species recovery, and reforms the listing decision process outlined in the Endangered Species Act (ESA). The Congresswoman is a co-sponsor of this legislation. “We are blessed to live in a corner of the country abundant in wildlife and natural beauty. But for too long, our community has encountered excessive mandates and social costs due to the outdated ESA. By making ESA data public to Eastern Washington men and women, we can keep local citizens better informed while caring for our wildlife. And by requiring federal agencies to provide Washington state and our local government with information before listings are made, we are increasing transparency and keeping more individuals involved – because no one understands what is going on at home better than the people who live there.” H.R. 4315 keeps states, tribes and local governments involved by requiring the consideration of data submitted by these entities as a part of the ESA process. Additionally, it requires the tracking and publication of ESA-related litigation expenses, including taxpayer-funded attorney fees. This legislation caps attorney fees for litigation filed under the Endangered Species Transparency and Reasonableness Act at $125 per hour. This is the same cap that applies to claims under the Equal Access to Justice Act, making it consistent with current law. ###
07.29.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement announcing community leader and lifelong Eastern Washington resident Chud Wendle as her new District Director. “It is with great excitement that I welcome Chud Wendle as my District Director. As a longtime leader and member of the Eastern Washington community, I know that he will serve as an invaluable member of our team. Chud brings over a decade of experience and involvement in Eastern Washington, having worked with numerous local non-profit organizations, including Goodwill Industries and United Way of both Pullman and Spokane. He and his family have a long history of giving back to our community, and I am glad to have him as a member of my staff. His leadership will bring new opportunities to my congressional office, advancing our partnership in moving Eastern Washington projects and issues forward. I look forward to working with Chud as we continue to bring new possibilities to Eastern Washington families.” Chud has worked in the private sector in both the automotive and real estate industries. Additionally, his entrepreneurial spirit led to the creation of the first and only frozen yogurt and cupcake shop in Pullman. For the past ten years Chud has coached numerous sports teams, including volunteering as a Spokane Youth Sports coach. Chud and his family recently moved back to Spokane after living in Pullman for six years. He and his wife, Cindy, have three sons, Ben, Nick, and Jack. Ben, their oldest, will be starting Lewis and Clark High School in the fall – making him the fourth generation of Wendle’s to attend the school. ###
07.24.2014	WASHINGTON, DC– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) applauded the passage today of H.R. 3136, the bipartisan Advancing Competency-Based Education Demonstration Project Act of 2014, which encourages innovation and flexibility in higher education. “As the first in my family to have graduated from college, I am especially proud of thebipartisan action the House took today to make higher education more affordable and accessible for people in Eastern Washington and across this country. For too long, obtaining higher education has meant financial hardship for students and familiesbecause traditional postsecondary education and federal aid programs have not kept up with advances in technology. This bipartisan legislation recognizes the needs of today’s students, making it possible for them to succeed and gain the fundamental skills they need to grow in the 21st century workforce. From WSU to Gonzaga, these efforts will to bring new opportunities to students on college campuses across Eastern Washington, and will make it possible for more students to gain personalized, cost-effective education.” The bipartisan Advancing Competency-Based Education Demonstration Project Act of 2014 directs the Secretary of Education to implement competency-based education demonstration projects that will support innovation and take advantage of technology in delivering a quality education rather than relying on traditional “credit hours” to measure progress. It provides accountability by requiring an annual evaluation to determine the quality, progress, and financial assistance opportunities related to each demonstration project. ###
07.24.2014	WASHINGTON, DC– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) applauded the passage today of H.R. 3136, the bipartisan Advancing Competency-Based Education Demonstration Project Act of 2014, which encourages innovation and flexibility in higher education. “As the first in my family to have graduated from college, I am especially proud of thebipartisan action the House took today to make higher education more affordable and accessible for people in Eastern Washington and across this country. For too long, obtaining higher education has meant financial hardship for students and familiesbecause traditional postsecondary education and federal aid programs have not kept up with advances in technology. This bipartisan legislation recognizes the needs of today’s students, making it possible for them to succeed and gain the fundamental skills they need to grow in the 21st century workforce. From WSU to Gonzaga, these efforts will to bring new opportunities to students on college campuses across Eastern Washington, and will make it possible for more students to gain personalized, cost-effective education.” The bipartisan Advancing Competency-Based Education Demonstration Project Act of 2014 directs the Secretary of Education to implement competency-based education demonstration projects that will support innovation and take advantage of technology in delivering a quality education rather than relying on traditional “credit hours” to measure progress. It provides accountability by requiring an annual evaluation to determine the quality, progress, and financial assistance opportunities related to each demonstration project. ###
07.24.2014	WASHINGTON, DC– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) applauded the passage today of H.R. 4984, the Empowering Students Through Enhanced Financial Counseling Act, which increases awareness for students and families participating in the federal loan program. “As someone who is still paying off student loans, I know firsthand how important it is to plan ahead and be aware of the financial commitments that are so often associated with higher education. This bipartisan legislation gives Eastern Washington students and parents the tools they need to make informed decisions about their financial commitments – through interactive counseling sessions and greater loan awareness. Taking on loans is a significant investment – one that that no student should go into blindly. This bill will change that. By empowering students with access to financial counseling opportunities, we can ensure students succeed.” Through annual counseling, the Empowering Students Through Enhanced Financial Counseling Act requires borrowers to consent every year before receiving federal student loans, providing better awareness for both students and borrowers. Additionally, it informs low-income students about the terms and conditions of the Pell Grant program. ###
07.24.2014	WASHINGTON, DC– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today after delivering testimony before the Senate Committee on Finance in support of H.R. 647, the Achieving a Better Life Experience (ABLE) Act, for which she is an original cosponsor and a longtime champion. "As the mom of a son who was born with that extra 21st chromosome, my family understands firsthand how federal policies limit – not expand – the opportunities for those with disabilities. And the ABLE Act will change that. It will ensure that my son, Cole – and the millions like him who have special needs – will be able to save for their futures and reach their full potential. In Eastern Washington and across this country, individuals with disabilities and their families spend countless hours worrying about their financial security. This stress, coupled with outdated laws – laws that encourage a life of dependence rather than saving assets for future expenses – must change. “As Americans, we want to empower everyone in this country – regardless of background or birth – and the ABLE Act will do that. It will empower millions of Americans, bringing independence for people with disabilities instead of requiring them to remain dependent on the federal government. It will help ensure that those with special needs will be able to save for their futures and reach their full potential – which every person should have the right to.” The ABLE Act would allow parents of children with disabilities to save for their children’s future without jeopardizing their access to benefits, helping many of them escape from poverty while adding another layer of security. ###
07.24.2014	WASHINGTON, DC– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today after meeting with United States Secretary of Transportation Anthony Foxx to discuss Eastern Washington’s transportation projects. “Transportation and infrastructure investment in Eastern Washington serves as the heartbeat of our community’s economic growth, and I was glad to speak with Secretary Foxx this afternoon to discuss the importance of these projects. Projects like ‘Connecting the Inland Pacific Hub Multimodal Centers to the Global Marketplace’ and North Spokane Corridor, which will better link our region to the rest of the world and expand economic opportunities. Secretary Foxx and I will continue to work together to advance Eastern Washington’s important transportation priorities.” The “Connecting the Inland Pacific Hub Multimodal Centers to the Global Marketplace” project seeks to rehabilitate portions of the Central Washington Branch of the state-owned Palouse River & Coulee City Rail System.
07.23.2014	WASHINGTON, DC– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today after hosting a meeting with congressional leaders and stakeholders to discuss recent events, America’s role in the world, and the components needed to transition to a 21st century military. “As we face escalating conflicts across the globe, it is imperative that we have a clear vision of America’s 21st-century role in the world. And that is why we must have these important conversations – to look ahead and develop a strategy that keeps the United States as the world’s leader. The recent developments in Iraq, Ukraine, and Israel underscore the need for bold American leadership. As Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus and the representative of Fairchild Air Force Base, I will make every effort to foster our place as a global leader for today and tomorrow.” These recurring meetings offer a unique opportunity for Members of Congress and defense experts to speak openly and substantively about the role the U.S. plays on a global scale. As a former member of the House Armed Services Committee, the Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus, and a representative of Eastern Washington’s military community, including Fairchild Air Force Base, Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers continues to work on issues affecting issues affecting U.S. defense policy.
07.21.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today in response to the wildfires impacting Washington state. “As these devastating wildfires continue to plague communities throughout Central Washington, my thoughts and my prayers go out to the men, women, and children who have been impacted. I offer my deepest appreciation to those who have put their lives on the line to combat these spreading fires — the firemen, Washington Guard, and countless volunteers. I remain in contact with those authorities working around the clock to keep all Washingtonians safe as we work toward a rapid, effective response.”
07.16.2014	WASHINGTON, DC– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) applauded the passage today of H.R. 3086,the bipartisanPermanent Internet Tax Freedom Act. This legislation, which McMorris Rodgers co-sponsors, permanently ensures Americans can continue to access the Internet tax free. “Every American should be able to use the internet without paying taxes, and now we can permanently guarantee noone faces a tax burden just to go online. This smart legislation will continue to enable Eastern Washington men, women, and children to communicate, learn, and conduct business in the 21st century. I was proud to cast my vote in support of this bill because a secure future digital economy – for wine producers in Walla Walla and online businesses in Spokane – relies on a tax free Internet every day.” This legislation permanently ensures that access to the Internet is not burdened by unnecessary costs and that Americans can continue to access the Internet tax free. ###
07.16.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) applauded the passage today of H.R. 5021, the Highway and Transportation Funding Act of 2014, which keeps safe thousands of jobs and secures funding for Eastern Washington transportation projects. “By passing legislation that keeps transportation projects like the North Spokane Corridor and U.S. Highway 12 in Walla Walla going, we are ensuring Eastern Washington roads remain open and Eastern Washington transportation jobs are protected. Supporting our nation's highways and bridges can go a long way in creating jobs and supporting our local economy, and this bill protects tens of thousands of American jobs in communities across our country. However, there is more work to be done, and we must now come together to develop a long-term solution, ensuring a lasting infrastructure network for Eastern Washington.” This legislation reauthorizes funding for Federal highway and surface transportation programs through May 31, 2015. Additionally, this bill addresses the looming shortfall in the Highway Trust Fund by providing critical funding through three funding provisions, none of which involve tax increases.
07.16.2014	WASHINGTON, DC– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) applauded the passage today of H.R. 5016, the Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act, 2015, which brings new possibilities to Eastern Washington and provides annual funding for the Treasury Department, the Judiciary, the Small Business Administration, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and several other agencies. “Today, I voted to create better opportunities for American taxpayers, because men and women in Eastern Washington are tired of a federal government that works against them. By increasing transparency and accountability in numerous government agencies, including the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB), we are reducing government spending and streamlining government agencies to better work for the people of Eastern Washington. No person should be discriminated against because of his or her political beliefs, and this bill prevents the IRS from targeting individuals based on these beliefs. And by prohibiting the IRS from implementing Obamacare’s individual mandate, we are reining in this agency’s intrusive overreach into the lives of millions of Americans. The time is now to build a better life for all Americans and to restore trust in our government, and I hope my colleagues in the Senate will follow suit.” The Financial Services and General Government Appropriations Act, 2015 is the seventh appropriations bill the House has passed since April, while the Senate has yet to pass a single one. It reduces IRS funding to a level sufficient for the agency to perform its core duties, including taxpayer services and the proper collection of funds, but will require the agency to streamline and make better use of its budget. ###
07.16.2014	The Honorable Gina McCarthy Administrator U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue NW Washington, DC 20460 Dear Administrator McCarthy: I write to express my concern regarding the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)’s recent release of proposed carbon emission regulations titled “Emission Guidelines for Existing Stationary Sources: Electric Utility Generating Units on existing power plants” and the specific state goal of reducing carbon emissions by 72 percent, the largest reduction asked of any state in the county. The proposed rule not only ignores Washington State’s current status as one of the lowest carbon emitters in the country, but it also forces the state to employ energy sources that are far less reliable and much more costly at the expense of our largest, most abundant energy resource – hydropower. To that end, I respectfully request that you reevaluate the approach currently taken by EPA and the impact that the proposed goal will have on Washington State. Washington State has a positive emissions story to tell. Coal makes up less than 3.5 percent of Washington State’s total electric utility generating capacity, with the only commercial coal-fired power plant in the State already being phased out by 2025. The state already emits less than 7 million metric tons of carbon (by the EPA’s own estimates), making it the ninth lowest emitter in the nation. Yet, under the proposed regulation, the EPA treats Washington State as the nation’s top carbon offender. Moreover, the EPA is forcing Washington State to make changes in such a way that currently discounts the state’s primary source of power, hydropower, which already makes Washington State among the cleanest and greenest in the nation. A review of EPA’s methodology underscores the Administration’s real motive. First, the EPA imposes a six percent reduction rate on all states’ 2012 coal-fired carbon emissions. In a state in which there will not be one single coal-fired power plant by 2025 and already emits less than 7 million metric tons of carbon – diverting resources to achieve a six percent reduction is inexplicable not to mention cost prohibitive. The EPA also requires states to make “dispatch” changes, which includes moving power needs to low emission sources such as natural gas combined cycle (NGCC). The rule presumes that states will utilize NGCC plants 70 percent of the time, thereby replacing higher emitting carbon sources. Again, with one of the lowest emissions rates already in place, it is unclear why the EPA is forcing Washington State to divert scarce resources to an energy source that contributes to approximately five percent of our electricity needs. Third, the EPA assumes and encourages the use of low and/or zero emitting power sources but specifically excludes hydropower. To estimate the potential power generated by renewable energy sources, the EPA grouped states into six regions, took the average renewable energy standard and potential growth in electricity, and applied those findings to individual states. Yet, the EPA specifically excluded hydropower, 70 percent of Washington State’s energy portfolio, from its regional calculations. Finally, the EPA looked to demand side reduction, which Washington State already addresses in a number of ways. The EPA talks a great deal about state flexibility. Yet, the facts suggest otherwise. If the regulation is finalized in its current form, EPA would have Washington State meet its electricity needs through resources that make up less than 30 percent of its entire energy portfolio – intermittent and costly energy resources at best. As a result, the only real losers under this proposed regulation will be the residents of Washington State who will most certainly be facing job losses and higher electricity bills. Washington State is already making significant strides to address carbon emissions and to protect the health and well being of residents. I urge you to reconsider the proposed regulation and look to the innovative solutions that Washington State is already employing through the use of hydropower to promote lower electricity costs, meet power demands, and promote overall consumer well-being. Sincerely, Cathy McMorris Rodgers Member of Congress
07.14.2014	WASHINGTON – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today applauding the House passage of H. Res 657, which calls on Hamas to immediately cease its rocket attacks against Israel. “It is with full and unwavering support that I stand beside our true friend and ally in the Middle East, the state of Israel. We condemn the violent terrorist attacks that have been executed in the name of Jihad, and our resolution reaffirms Israel’s right to defend herself. When five million innocent Israelis wake up every morning to the threat of deadly rocket attacks, they have a right to protect themselves. When Hamas – a terrorist organization that has fired more than 600 rockets from Gaza in the last month alone – calls for the destruction of the State of Israel, the people have a right to respond. And this Congress stands beside them as they do. “Our resolution reaffirms Israel’s right to defend herself and calls on Hamas to immediately cease its rocket attacks. We must come together as Americans to condemn the terrorist attacks against the people of Israel. They are unwarranted and unprovoked. And they must be stopped. Furthermore, we urge the Administration, as it moves forward in its nuclear negotiations with Iran, to take a somber look at Iran’s support to Hamas and Palestinian Islamic Jihad, which enables them to produce longer-range rockets to kill innocent Israelis. We send the people of Israel the steadfast and unending support of the United States of America.” ###
07.10.2014	WASHINGTON, DC– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) applauded the passage today of H.R. 803, the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act, which creates new opportunities for the people of Eastern Washington by closing the skills gap between job seekers and job opportunities. “This bipartisan legislation will improve our nation’s workforce training system and help put hard-working men and women in Eastern Washington back to work. By closing the gap between the millions currently unemployed and the millions of jobs left unfilled because of a lack of required skills, we can ensure new opportunities for today's job seekers and equip the next generation of innovators with the workforce they need to succeed. “Additionally, by focusing efforts on youth service programs, we’re working to reduce the high school dropout rate and bring new opportunities to Eastern Washington’s young people. And by ensuring that individuals with disabilities have the skills necessary to be successful in workplaces that provide competitive employment, this legislation guarantees countless Eastern Washington men and women new possibilities for reaching their full potential.” The Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act streamlines the federal workforce program and creates community and state-specific workforce development boards to best fit unique local needs. By enabling businesses to identify in-demand skills and match workers seeking to build those skills, this bill encourages Eastern Washington’s Aerospace Corridor to increase employment opportunities in the region. ###
06.30.2014	WASHINGTON, DC– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement in response to the Supreme Court’s ruling that some employers will not be required under the Affordable Care Act to provide insurance coverage for certain drugs and devices that are contrary to their religious or moral beliefs. “Today’s ruling marks a victory for religious freedom and for the American people. We live in a nation founded on the fundamental right that all people can live and work according to their beliefs – without fear of punishment from the federal government. This morning the Supreme Court defended liberty by ruling that American family business owners should not be forced to choose between their faith or unlawful, unnecessary government mandates. While we celebrate this triumph for religious freedom today, our work is not finished. We must keep fighting to ensure that the Constitutional rights of other individuals and organizations are also protected.” ###
06.30.2014	SPOKANE, WA– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers’ staff members will host monthly mobile office hours throughout Eastern Washington. Anyone who needs assistance with a federal agency or would like to voice an opinion about federal issues is encouraged to come by—no appointment necessary. McMorris Rodgers staff members will be at the following locations in July: Wednesday, July 2, 2014 Clarkston: SEWEDA Office, 845 Port Way, 9-11 AM Pomeroy: Garfield County Courthouse, 789 Main St, 2-4 PM Tuesday, July 8, 2014 Newport: Pend Oreille County Court House, 625 W 4th St, 9-11 AM Davenport: Lincoln County Court House, Chambers Room, Logan St, 2-4 PM* Wednesday, July 9, 2014 Republic: Northern Inn, 852 S Clark Ave, 11 AM – 1 PM Additionally, State Representative Judy Warnick will be hosting her monthly “District Office Day” in Davenport at the same time. Any further questions can be directed to the Spokane office at 509-353-2374 ###
06.26.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) applauded the House passage of H.R. 3301, the bipartisan North American Energy Infrastructure Act,H.R. 6, the Domestic Prosperity and Global Freedom Act, and H.R. 4899, Lowering Gasoline Prices to Fuel an America that Works Act of 2014 this week. This package of energy bills increases domestic energy production while lowering costs for Eastern Washington families. “As I continue to hear from families in Eastern Washington struggling with higher prices at the pump, increased energy bills at home, and stagnant paychecks, I am proud to support legislation that will lower energy costs and bring relief to so many at home. It’s time to say ‘yes’ to American energy. And that’s exactly what our pro-jobs, pro-energy bills do. They create jobs for millions of Americans who are eager to get back to work. They reduce barriers to energy production so we can unleash our vast supply of domestic resources. And most of all, they improve people’s lives where it matters most: at the gas pump, in the job market, and in their homes. We’re working every day to bring costs down and make life better for people at home in Eastern Washington.” The North American Energy Infrastructure Actsimplifies the approval process for of oil and natural gas pipelines and electric transmission lines that cross the U.S. border, improving an inconsistent system while supporting new jobs. It removes the Presidential Permit requirement for construction or modification of these pipelines and supports an efficient approval process that will not keep thousands of new jobs stuck in federal gridlock. The Domestic Prosperity and Global Freedom Act increases liquefied natural gas (LNG) exports across the globe, creating new jobs in the energy sector and bringing certainty to the Department of Energy’s export approval process. Embracing advancements in technology and innovation, this legislation benefits America’s domestic needs as well as the export market. The Lowering Gasoline Prices to Fuel an America that Works Act of 2014 cuts red tape that hinders American oil and natural gas production by opening access to the U.S.’s vast energy resources and enabling the creation of new jobs. ###
06.25.2014	WASHINGTON, DC– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today celebrating Spokane County for being selected as a recipient of the 2014 Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Culture of Health Prize. The prize is awarded to six communities annually that embody a commitment to helping residents live healthier lives. “I commend Spokane County for its success in transforming our community’s high school graduation rate, and applaud the lasting impact they have made on bettering the lives of young people in Eastern Washington. By empowering students through skill-building training sessions and targeted dropout prevention programs, I am proud that Spokane County is enriching the lives – and contributing to the long-term success – of so many of our Eastern Washington students.” Out of over 250 applicants from across the country, Spokane County has been recognized for its transformational role in expanding educational opportunities, and will receive a cash award of $25,000 to further these efforts. In 2006, Spokane Public Schools’ (SPS) overall graduation rate was below 60 percent, while Spokane County’s rate was 72.9 percent. Through community efforts, by 2013 the SPS graduation rate rose to 79.5 percent, and 81 percent for Spokane County. To learn more about the work Spokane County is doing, please click here. ###
06.19.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) applauded the House passage today of H.R. 4457, the bipartisan America’s Small Business Tax Relief Act of 2014, which permanently allows American taxpayers to deduct business-related equipment purchases. “This legislation brings much-needed certainty to the thousands of people who work on farms and in small businesses across Eastern Washington. It provides them the opportunity to create more jobs and invest in new, innovative advancements that will make people’s lives better. This common-sense legislation will open doors for our agricultural and rural communities. I applaud this effort to help taxpayers grow their businesses and bring new jobs to Eastern Washington.” The America’s Small Business Tax Relief Act of 2014 makes it possible for taxpayers to expense up to $500,000 of investments in new equipment – such as farming machinery – per year.
06.10.2014	WASHINGTON, DC– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today after both the VA Medical Center in Walla Walla and Spokane were listed by Department of Veterans Affairs auditors as requiring further review. “I am deeply concerned that VA facilities in Eastern Washington remain under investigation, and I remain steadfast in my commitment to unearthing the truth so we can understand just what went wrong. As we continue investigations both here in Congress and through internal review of the Inspector General, we will get answers. And with those answers, we will make sure our American heroes have access to the best possible care from a modernized agency that puts their needs first.” Walla Walla and Spokane VAMCs were 2 of 81 sites visited in Phase One of the internal audit that require further review out of a total of 216 sites. The review examines delayed scheduling and management practices, and found that more than 57,000 veterans have experienced over 90 day wait times for VA medical appointments across the country. Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers is an original co-sponsor of the Veteran Access to Care Act of 2014, which works to increase access to care by requiring the VA to offer outside care for those veterans who live over 40 miles from a VA facility or those who are experiencing excessive wait times. Additionally, the Congresswoman sent a letter to President Obama alongside colleagues urging him to take immediate action to address these concerns. ###
06.10.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) applauded the House passage today of H.R. 4810, the bipartisan Veteran Access to Care Act of 2014, for which she is an original co-sponsor. “We must continue to put our veterans first, and by making it easier for them to access quality care, we can ensure that Eastern Washington’s veterans remain a top priority. It is unacceptable to see our American heroes put on a backburner with delayed appointments, and it is unacceptable to expect veterans who live miles and miles from a VA facility to travel every time they need care. I am proud to co-sponsor legislation that will immediately help our veterans, and while we have much more work to do, this legislation is a step toward bringing much-needed change to a broken VA system.” The Veteran Access to Care Act of 2014 would enable veterans who live over 40 miles from a VA facility to receive non-VA care, and guarantees those veterans who have experienced extensive wait times access to non-VA care. Additionally, this bipartisan legislation suspends bonuses for all VA employees for the next two years.
06.06.2014	WASHINGTON, DC –Rep Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today issued the following statement in response to the Department of Labor’s May 2014 unemployment report. “As hardworking Eastern Washingtonians continue struggling to find work, this month’s unemployment report shows there is still little to celebrate. We need to revitalize this stagnant economy with more pro-jobs, pro-growth solutions like the dozens and dozens of bills passed by the House. Instead, hardworking Americans are facing an Administration committed to destroying jobs with backwards policies and a Democratic-controlled Senate that refuses to pass stacks of bills. Middle-class families in Eastern Washington should be empowered with opportunities for good-paying jobs that will help jumpstart the economy and make their lives better.” According to this month’s report, the unemployment rate remains at 6.3 percent, while the labor participation hovers at just 62.8 percent, suggesting hardworking Americans are overwhelmed by this struggling economy and by the prospect of finding employment. ###
05.29.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today after a press conference about protecting America’s veterans and holding the VA accountable. “The flaws within the VA all across the country are rampant and egregious. As we’ve seen in recent weeks, far too many of our veterans have been impacted by the VA’s widespread mismanagement. We must bring the VA into the 21st century, increase accountability among its leaders, and protect the brave men and women who have, for so long, protected us. Because too often, our veterans don’t get the care that they need and that they were promised.” Veterans can now share their stories using the form on our home page “Tell Me Your Story”.
05.22.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today issued the following statement after the House passed H.R. 4435, the bipartisan National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (NDAA), which is essential to provide the necessary authorities for training and equipment for America’s military. “Our servicemen and women at Fairchild Air Force Base and across Eastern Washington put their lives on the line every day to protect us, so it is crucial we guarantee them the proper training and equipment to allow them to do their jobs. The bill passed today enables us to strengthen our national security while continuing to invest in critical programs, like the Air Force’s KC-46A refueling tanker,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Additionally, we know that when a service member joins the military, it’s not just a job, it’s a family commitment to our country. As the co-chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus, I am pleased that this year’s NDAA included my bipartisan amendment, which evaluates the Military Spouse Employment Program’s progress in helping military spouses find jobs and reduce their underemployment – because from frequent moves to bearing the weight at home while a spouse is deployed, our military spouses deserve our support.” The bill authorizes $521.3 billion in spending for national defense efforts and operations and $79.4 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations.
05.20.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today issued the following statement after the House passed H.R. 3080, the bipartisan Water Resources Reform and Development Act of 2014, which streamlines and strengthens water transportation networks to create jobs and support economic growth. “America is blessed with an unparalleled network of natural harbors and rivers. Significant to all of Eastern Washington, this legislation accelerates water project delivery and promotes job growth, and in particular it brings new economic opportunity to the City of Asotin. By transferring land owned by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to the city, we are enabling shoreline restoration and new recreational opportunities for our community. Strengthening and maintaining the many ports, channels, locks, and dams, which support maritime trade, we are bringing new jobs – and new opportunities – to Eastern Washington.” ###
05.20.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In a press conference today, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) offered her support of a series of bipartisan anti-human trafficking bills, which increase protection for the victims of human trafficking, hold buyers and sellers engaged in sex trafficking accountable for their crimes, and streamline law enforcement resources. “We must put an end to one of this country’s most egregious epidemics: human sex trafficking. This heinous offense is taking place in our own backyard, and traffickers who target our daughters and our sisters must be stopped. The victims of this crime must be protected. Our bipartisan legislation works to protects the innocent victims of sex trafficking while holding those who buy and sell children accountable for their actions. As the mom of three, I will do everything I can to prevent future children from knowing the horrors of this crime.” Click here to view the Congresswoman’s remarks from today's press conference. Additionally, the House Republicans today released a new video drawing attention to the growing problem of human trafficking. ###
05.09.2014	WASHINGTON DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) today issued the following statement after the House passed H.R. 10, the Student Success and Opportunity through Quality Charter Schools Act, which encourages states to expand and replicate high performing charter schools. “A strong, quality education for our children is integral for them to grow, learn, and succeed – and charter schools provide that important foundation. By opening the doors to students so they can attend charter schools, we are ensuring them the opportunity for a better future, and by arming parents with the ability to meet their children’s needs – particularly those students who are disadvantaged, have special needs, or are English Language Learners – we can better ensure a quality education for children in Eastern Washington. Additionally, I look forward to watching the eight charter schools certified to open in Washington State, including PRIDE Prep Charter School in Spokane, give students quality educations and better opportunities for their futures.” ###
05.09.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today after the House passed H.R. 4438, the bipartisan American Research and Competitiveness Act of 2014, which permanently fortifies the research and development tax credit. “America has long been the world’s leading innovator; from technological breakthroughs to medical advancements, we are a nation built on new ideas. The certainty from this bill helps pave the way for that next big idea from Eastern Washington innovators and thinkers that will create good-paying jobs, spur economic growth, and potentially change the world.” ###
05.08.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today after the House passed H.Res. 567, Providing for the Establishment of the Select Committee on the Events Surrounding the 2012 Terrorist Attack in Benghazi. “By continuing to take the egregious cover-ups surrounding the terrorist attack in Benghazi seriously, the House has voted to establish a new select committee to investigate the details surrounding that horrible night when four brave Americans lost their lives. Eastern Washingtonians and all Americans have the right to know the truth about the actions of its government, and when our government fails us we must hold it accountable for its actions.” ###
05.08.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – In a House Republican press conference today, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) offered her support of H.R. 10, the Success and Opportunity through Quality Charter Schools Act, which encourages states to expand and replicate high performing charter schools. Remarks as Prepared for Delivery: “I’d like to start today by sharing the words of AB Bustamante, a charter school student at Uplift Peak Prep High School in Texas. He says: ‘Being the first in my family to graduate from high school is the accomplishment I’m most proud of. My parents dropped out of 6th grade in Mexico in order to come to the United States. Graduating will not only make my parents proud, but I will also send a message to my younger sisters that with strong determination, nothing is impossible.’ I’m proud to say that just a few weeks ago, AB opened his letter of acceptance to the Naval Academy and plans to become a Second Lieutenant in the United States Marine Corps. And it all started in the classroom of his charter school. “Like many charter schools across the country, Uplift Peak is made up of 90% minority students, and nearly 93% are low-income. But their charter school has given them the opportunity for an education, for a career, and for a better life. That is what we want for everyone in this country – no matter how much money they have, or where they were born, or what challenges they face. Right now, more than 1 million students are on the waitlists for charter schools across America. So let’s help them. Let’s make sure they have the opportunities AB had, and the students beside me have had – to grow and learn and succeed. Our bipartisan legislation will do just that – it will help states expand charter schools to give students access to these innovative institutions. “Let’s open more doors for America’s students. Let’s expand their educational choices. And let’s give them the foundation to be America’s next innovators, entrepreneurs, doctors, artists and engineers. This is how we make it happen.” Click here for audio ###
04.30.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today in support of the passage of H.R. 4486, theMilitary Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2015, which will increase discretionary funding for veteran services in Eastern Washington. “We are forever grateful for the countless sacrifices made by our Eastern Washington veterans, and we owe them our utmost appreciation for defending and protecting our freedom. By devoting resources to improving mental health care, suicide prevention, traumatic brain injury treatment, homeless veterans programs, and rural health initiatives, we can ensure those who have served receive the care they were promised and that they deserve.” The Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2015 secures $158 billionfor the Department of Veterans Affairs, a 7 percent increase of funding over the fiscal year 2014 enacted level. ###
04.30.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today encouraging the Obama administration and House Appropriations Committee leadershipto support Eastern Washington students with disabilities by making federal funding for Part B of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) a top priority. “School districts in Eastern Washington are suffering as they work to provide students with special needs essential support and services. We owe it to these children to ensure they receive the attention they deserve. Parents and teachers alike are not seeking new grants or funding – but they desperately need support for our community’s most vulnerable students. I will continue to advocate for all children with disabilities, and urge the Obama administration and the House Appropriations Committee to make them a priority here at home and across the country.” Alongside colleagues, Rep. McMorris Rodgers submitted a formal request for a $1.5 billion increase in IDEA Part B funding in the Fiscal Year 2015 Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, bringing the total funding to $13 billion. In the letter, Rep. McMorris Rodgers and fellow members state: As our nation struggles with debt levels that have eclipsed the size of the entire U.S. economy, difficult choices must be made. We must stop wasting taxpayer dollars on new and ineffective programs and instead work toward meeting our basic obligation to ensure special needs children are prepared for success after high school. We urge you to renew Congress’s commitment to these students, their families, and their educators. To view the entire letter, please click here. To view a chart illustrating how the requested increase in funding would help school districts, click here. # # #
04.29.2014	SPOKANE – Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today applauding the reopening of Pend Oreille Operations, an underground zinc and lead operation managed by Teck American Incorporated. The mine, which is near Metaline Falls, is expected to grow its workforce by 240 employees. “The reopening of this mine will breathe new life into Pend Oreille County, fueling job opportunities for the hardworking men and women of Eastern Washington. The mine will enable families to discover new possibilities, and I’m thrilled to see such extensive job creation –which will allow so many to achieve a better life.” ###
04.29.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.– In a House Republican press conference today, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) discussed the policies Republicans are advancing to enable Eastern Washingtonians and all Americans an opportunity for a better life. Remarks as prepared for delivery: “Allow me to start by wishing my son Cole a happy birthday today. We’ve all just returned from being home in our districts – from Ohio to California to North Carolina to Washington – and if there’s one thing Americans have in common right now, it’s their desire for a better life and more opportunities. They want the opportunity to bring home better paychecks, to find new jobs, and to provide security for their families. When I was home, I had the chance to visit one of my favorite local ‘mom and pop’ convenience stores, owned for many years by a husband and wife back in Eastern Washington. And they’re struggling in this economy. They’re concerned about their future because of all the uncertainty coming out of Washington right now. The worst part is: they’re not the only ones. Americans all across this country – no matter where they’re from or how old they are – are struggling to achieve a better life for themselves and their families. This economy and these policies aren’t working and they aren’t fair. And they’re hurting more people than they’re helping. So let’s come together – the White House and Congress, Republicans and Democrats – to help give people better paychecks, better jobs, and better lives. Republicans have a long-term, pro-growth jobs plan to make that happen. And we’ll keep fighting until we do.” Click Here to Watch Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers’ Remarks ###
04.28.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today after being honored by the hydropower industry at the National Hydropower Association’s (NHA) Annual Conference. “It is a tremendous honor to receive NHA’s Legislator of the Year award. Hydropower affords us great opportunity for energy growth, and I look forward to continuing to support its development,” McMorris Rodgers said. “We owe it to the Pacific Northwest and to the rest of the country to expand an energy source that will not only lower energy costs for the working middle class, but create thousands of new jobs.” The Congresswoman co-authored the bipartisan Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act, which streamlines the permitting process for small hydropower and conduit projects. The legislation passed the House unanimously and was signed into law in August. She continues to pursue hydropower opportunities.
04.10.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today after the House passed the Fiscal Year 2015 Budget. “It is time to get America back to work, and by passing a responsible budget, House Republicans are working to boost wages and create jobs for everyone in this country. Eastern Washington families need relief, and our budget will put more money into their pockets and pave the way for an economy in which they can thrive. By cutting wasteful spending, this budget – one that balances in ten years – stops spending money we don’t have. Families in Eastern Washington and all across the country are forced to abide by their budgets, balance their checkbooks, and live within their means. It’s time for Washington, D.C. to do the same thing.”
04.09.2014	SPOKANE – Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) invited high school students throughout Washington’s Fifth Congressional District to participate in the 32nd Annual Congressional Art Competition.The contest, “An Artistic Discovery,” began in 1982 as a way to recognize and encourage the artistic talent of America’s youth. “This competition is a unique opportunity for students to showcase their artistic abilities and represent Washington’s 5th District in our nation’s capital. I’m excited to celebrate the extraordinary talent of our students,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. The winning student will be invited to Washington, DC for a ribbon-cutting ceremony and will have his or her artwork displayed in the U.S. Capitol for one year. The second-place entry will be on display in the Congresswoman’s Spokane office. Students are encouraged to submit various styles and types of art, ranging from paintings and drawings to photography and mixed media pieces. The artwork must be original in design, no more than 15 lbs., no larger than 28” X 28” X 4,” and be prepared for hanging. Each student may submit one piece of artwork. Submissions may be brought to the Congresswoman’s offices in Spokane, Walla Walla, and Colville. The winner of the competition will also receive two airline tickets from Southwest Airlines to come see his or her artwork as it is displayed. The deadline for submission is April 23, 2014. For any further questions, participants may contact Kristy.Sauer@mail.house.gov.
04.08.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, discussed the policies Republicans are promoting to help women – and everyone – secure jobs and an opportunity for a better life. In a House Republican press conference today, McMorris Rodgers highlighted the significant impact women in Eastern Washington and across the country have on the economy. “I’m sure you’re aware that today is “Equal Pay Day” – and as a woman – and as one that has two young daughters– I have always supported equal pay for equal work, as have all of us. What we’re promoting as Republicans are those policies that are going to empower women and everyone. Give people freedom, flexibility, jobs, higher pay checks, and the opportunity for a better life. All you have to do is look at last week’s jobs report, where you see that the President’s policies are having the exact opposite impact. What you see are those policies that are actually creating more unemployment for women, and less opportunities for job growth, and less opportunities for a higher paycheck. “So on this year’s ‘Equal Pay Day,’ I want to celebrate and highlight the important role that women are playing in our economy. When you look at the fact that 47% of the workforce now are women, that they make most of America’s consumer spending decisions, 2 out of 3 small businesses right now are being started by women. They are the majority of our healthcare workers as well as 85% of healthcare decisions are made by women. So women understand the direct impact of the policies and the impact that they have on them, So on this equal pay day I would urge us to stop politicizing women and let’s start focusing on those policies that are actually going to help women – and everyone in this country – have a better life. Let’s focus on those policies that are actually going to move forward on a jobs plan that will create a higher paycheck, more opportunities, and an opportunity for a better life, which we all want.” *Click Here to Watch Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers’ Remarks*
04.07.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today in support of H.R. 4031, the Department of Veterans Affairs Management Accountability Act of 2014and H.R. 4370, the Veterans Information Security Improvement Act, both of which she is a co-sponsor. These two common-sense bills will reduce widespread mismanagement of U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs’ (VA) facilities and improve transparency and accountability. “The servicemen and women at Fairchild Air Force Base and across Eastern Washington have made countless sacrifices for our nation. I am committed to ensuring those who have served our county receive the care, support, and benefits that they were promised and that they have earned. There is no excuse for poor management of VA facilities. By enabling the VA Secretary to remove ineffective management and burdensome staff, we can ensure our military heroes receive the excellent care they deserve with this legislation that will help the millions of veterans who depend on the VA for their hard-earned benefits.”
04.07.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, discussed the hardships those in Eastern Washington face as a result of the revised 30-hour “full-time” work week definition in the President’s health care law. In a press conference with House Republican leaders today, McMorris Rodgers highlighted the action House Republicans are taking to fix this consequence of the President’s health care plan. "Yesterday the President attempted to tout the success of his signature health care law – but he failed to account for the millions of Americans – in Eastern Washington and across the country — who have been hurt because of it. He told the American people, 'The law is working. It’s helping people from coast to coast.' But reality paints a far different picture. "People in Eastern Washington are struggling to pay their premiums, see their old doctors, and keep their hours at work. In fact, the Hoover Institute estimates that 2.6 million workers are at risk for reduced hours because of Obamacare’s 30-hour definition – and these are median-income workers – some of the most vulnerable in our country. I’ve heard from too many people at home – people who bag groceries at our local market, who work late nights at the McDonald’s Drive Thru, or who serve as teacher’s aides in our classrooms. And so many of them are afraid – almost panicked – about how to make ends meet if their hours are cut because of Obamacare’s revised 30-hour definition. That’s why I’m proud we are taking action to restore the 40-hour work week with the Save American Workers Act – and I hope we can come together to pass it. The success of the President’s health care law cannot be measured by his words or his unconfirmed numbers, but by people’s real-life experiences. And it is not working. So let’s pass a solution that really protects people in Eastern Washington and across the United States." Click Here to Watch Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers’ Remarks
04.07.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, voted today for theEnsuring Public Involvement in the Creation of National Monuments Act, which would amend the 1906 Antiquities Act and ensure that privately owned land will no longer come under the threat of being federally allocated. “While National Monuments offer tribute to our history, we must guarantee Eastern Washington the opportunity to participate in decisions that impact our community. Private property should not be unjustly allocated for federal purposes without a property owner’s approval, and by supporting the Ensuring Public Involvement in the Creation of National Monuments Act, we are respecting the rights of property owners throughout Eastern Washington.” Under the century-old Antiquities Act, the President can single-handedly designate a national monument without taking input from local citizens. By limiting National Monument declarations in Washington State to no more than one per presidential term, the land will not be subject to unwarranted use.”
04.07.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today after the House passed H.R. 2575, the bipartisan Save American Workers Act, which would restore the 40-hour full-time work week. “Today the House acted to protect people from Eastern Washington and across the country from seeing their hours cut as a result of the President’s unworkable health care law. Because of the revised 30-hour full-time work week definition in Obamacare, 2.6 million people are at risk of reduced hours – and many of them are our most vulnerable. Every day I hear from people in Eastern Washington who are living paycheck to paycheck, struggling to support their families, and fighting to make ends meet. This legislation will provide relief to everyone – from single moms who bag groceries at the local market to those who work late nights at the McDonald’s Drive-Thru – from the unjust ramifications of the President’s false promises.”
03.24.2014	SPOKANE, WA—Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers’ staff members are hosting monthly mobile office hours throughout Eastern Washington. Anyone who needs assistance with a federal agency or would like to voice an opinion on federal issues is encouraged to come by—no appointment necessary. McMorris Rodgers staff members will be at the following locations in April 2014: Tuesday, April 1 Colfax: Whitman County Courthouse, 400 North Main St, 9-11 AM Clarkston: SEWEDA Office, 845 Port Way, 2-4 PM Wednesday, April 2 Pomeroy: Garfield County Courthouse, 789 Main St, 9-11 AM Dayton: Port of Columbia County Office, 1 Port Way, 2-4 PM Tuesday, April 8 Newport: Pend Oreille County Court House, 625 W 4th St, 9-11 AM Davenport: Lincoln County Court House, Chambers Room, Logan St, 2-4 PM Wednesday, April 9 Republic: Northern Inn, 852 S Clark Ave, 11 AM – 1 PM Any further questions can be directed to the Spokane office at 509-353-2374
03.19.2014	WASHINGTON, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement after the House passed HR 4015, the Sustainable Growth Rate Repeal and Medicare Provider Payment Modernization Act: "Whenever I’m home in Eastern Washington, I hear from too many seniors who fear the uncertainty over their Medicare coverage. Medicare's current Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR) is anything but sustainable, and this legislation provides the certainty and security that our Eastern Washington seniors – and the physicians who treat them – desperately need. By protecting people from Obamacare's unfair individual mandate tax for five years, the House has extended the same relief to Eastern Washington and to all Americans that the President has already given to businesses with big checkbooks. It's time for real solutions, real fairness, and real relief – and this legislation does just that."
03.11.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed the bipartisan Hire More Heroes Act: “There is no group more deserving of employment than our servicemen and women. When our veterans return home, it is our duty to help them find their next opportunity. “However, Obamacare’s unfair employer mandate has prevented small businesses from hiring workers during these already difficult economic times. This bipartisan legislation incentivizes small businesses to hire qualified veterans by exempting them from the mandate,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “By cutting red tape and encouraging new job opportunities, the Hire More Heroes Act helps both our small businesses and our veterans thrive.” WASHINGTON, D.C.– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed the bipartisan Hire More Heroes Act: “There is no group more deserving of employment than our servicemen and women. The troops that have served at Fairchild Air Force Base – and the thousands of service members across Eastern Washington – know firsthand the challenges veterans face when they return home. It is our duty to help these American heroes find their next opportunity. But Obamacare’s unfair employer mandate has prevented small businesses from hiring workers during these already difficult economic times. This bipartisan legislation incentivizes small businesses to hire qualified veterans by exempting them from the mandate,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “By cutting red tape and encouraging new job opportunities, the Hire More Heroes Act helps Eastern Washington’s small businesses and our veterans thrive.”
03.03.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today after the House of Representatives passed 11 bills as a part of Stop Government Abuse Week. “When I was traveling around Eastern Washington last week, I heard from too many people who are worried about the unprecedented growth of the federal government. They're afraid of more mandates, more regulations, and more interference. And they're afraid of a President who makes unilateral decisions without consulting Congress. From defending our constitutional rights to stopping the IRS targeting people for their political beliefs, I am proud of the House for acting to bring an end to government abuse. This will protect hardworking families in Eastern Washington and help restore people’s trust in their government.” The following bills passed the House this week: · H.R. 1211 – FOIA Oversight and Implementation Act of 2014 · H.R. 1232 – Federal Information Technology Acquisition Reform Act · H.R. 1423 – Taxpayers Right-to-Know Act · H.R. 2530 – Taxpayer Transparency and Efficient Audit Act · H.R. 2531 – Protecting Taxpayers from Intrusive IRS Requests Act · H.R. 1123 – Unlocking Consumer Choice and Wireless Competition Act · H.R. 3865 – Stop Targeting of Political Beliefs by the IRS Act · H.R. 3308 – Taxpayer Transparency Act · H.R. 1944 – Private Property Rights Protection Act · H.R. 2804 – Achieving Less in Regulation and Requiring Transparency Act of 2014 (ALERRT Act) · H.R. 899 – Unfunded Mandates Information and Transparency Act ###
02.24.2014	SPOKANE, WA– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers’ office will host monthly mobile office hours around Eastern Washington. Anyone who needs assistance with a federal agency, or would like to voice an opinion on federal issues is encouraged to come by – no appointment necessary. McMorris Rodgers staff members will be at the following locations in March 2014. Tuesday, March 4 Colfax: Whitman County Courthouse, 9-11 AM Clarkston: SEWEDA Office, 2-4 PM Wednesday, March 5 Pomeroy: Garfield County Courthouse, 9-11 AM Dayton: Port of Columbia County Office, 2-4 PM Tuesday, March 11 Newport: Pend Oreille County Courthouse, 9-11 AM Davenport: Lincoln County Courthouse, 2-4 PM Wednesday, March 12 Republic: Northern Inn, 11 AM – 1 PM Any further questions can be directed to the Spokane office at 509-353-2374. ###
02.13.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement after Rep. Doc Hastings (WA-04) announced he will not seek re-election in November. “Doc Hastings has served the people of Central Washington with distinction for three decades and earned a reputation for hard work and integrity. From 1978 to 1987, he served in the state House before being elected to the House of Representatives in 1994, defeating first-term Congressman Jay Inslee. “One of Doc’s greatest contributions has come from his service on the House Natural Resources Committee beginning when he was first elected, rising to Ranking Member in 2009 and assuming the Chairmanship in 2011 when Republicans gained the Majority. From his roots in Eastern Washington, Doc’s knowledge of farming, forestry and river resources made him a natural leader in these areas. “With over half of all Western land owned by the federal government, Doc pushed for the sensible and sustainable use of the nation’s natural resources, encouraging American energy independence and the wise use of water resources for hydropower and farming. “From my first year in office until today, Doc has always been a friend and mentor who set an example of what selfless leadership can accomplish. For the past fifteen years, he never received less than 60 percent of the vote and could easily have won re-election this fall, but he has chosen to spend more time with Claire, his children and grandchildren. Doc’s integrity, wise counsel and gentle humor will be sorely missed in the nation’s capital.” ###
02.11.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today after voting against a clean increase in the debt limit. “Today Congress was forced to make a critical decision: to continue down the same path of fiscal irresponsibility, or make the tough choices necessary to change course and protect people all across this country. We can continue to ignore the problem of out-of-control spending, or we can address it. Unfortunately, the Democrats who run Washington refuse to seriously address our crushing debt in any other way than higher taxes, which isn’t fair to those in Eastern Washington and across America. If President Obama and the Democratic-controlled Senate refuse to address our spending addiction when a debt limit increase is requested, when will they? I have long advocated for a Balanced Budget Amendment that would require Washington, DC to live within its means – just like families in Eastern Washington do around the kitchen table each month – and I hope today’s action will force that conversation.” ###
02.11.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement after the House passed S.25, an amendment to the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013, to restore COLA benefits to retired service members. “As a representative of Fairchild Air Force Base and thousands of veterans throughout Eastern Washington, I am especially proud of today’s vote to protect those who have served our country. This critical legislation will preserve pensions and restore cost-of-living adjustments for our retired military personnel. Our military men and women should not be the victim of Washington’s budget cuts – and this legislation will restore the benefits they’ve so valiantly earned. I am proud of the action the House has taken to keep our promise and protect those who have defended American freedom.” ###
02.11.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. –Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, spoke on the House floor today to recognize the Walla Walla Valley and the 30th anniversary of its federal designation as an American Viticultural Area. The following is an excerpt from the Congresswoman’s statement. “Over the past 30 years, the Walla Walla Valley has earned national and international recognition for being one of the best wine regions in the world. Just ask Gary and Nancy Figgins, who opened Leonetti Cellar in 1984 – when there were just 4 wineries in the Walla Walla Valley. Today, within 1800 acres of green, rolling hills, you will find 130 different wineries. This growth has allowed businesses to expand and wine tourism to become a top industry in the state. “Our community has rallied around the business owners, and now wine-related jobs account for almost 15% of jobs in the area and growing. All of this leads to a $500 million-dollar economic impact in Walla Walla County. But it’s about more than just numbers. It’s about a community that makes us all proud to call Washington state our home. I am honored to represent the Walla Walla Valley and everything it does to advance growth and innovation back home. So congratulations on 30 exceptional years, and best wishes for many, many more to come.” Click here to watch the video. ###
01.29.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C.– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, continued her efforts to strengthen Eastern Washington’s agriculture community by supporting the Agriculture Act of 2014, which passed the House with bipartisan support. This bicameral agreement saves taxpayers money, while providing the necessary safety net for Eastern Washington’s farmers and agriculture community. “Eastern Washington’s farmers and ranchers need the certainty of a new five-year farm bill and I support the House passing the Agriculture Act of 2014 which maintains our commitment to rural America while improving the efficiency of many programs,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “I’ve been a strong advocate for getting a new farm bill signed into law. With today’s important vote, I am more confident than ever that it will get done this year, which will be a great victory for Eastern Washington’s largest industry.” Agriculture has a $16 billion annual total economic impact in Washington State. Family wheat farms are one of the largest economic drivers of jobs in Eastern Washington, generating nearly $925 million in production value to the State’s economy. “Farmers and growers play a vital role in Eastern Washington’s economy. It’s important that we provide them with the necessary tools to produce a safe and reliable food supply,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. Important to Eastern Washington, the Agricultural Act of 2014 strengthens crop insurance and boosts export opportunities for farmers across the region. The bill also provides one year of full funding for the Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) program, which is vital to Ferry, Stevens and Pend Oreille counties. Today’s legislation also reauthorizes the Market Access Program and leverages public and private dollars to continue and enhance critical agriculture research, which is important to Washington State University, an institution known for its exceptional and ground-breaking research. The Agricultural Act of 2014 also contains provisions to promote the health and active management of America’s forests and provides certainty to forest products by clarifying that forest roads should not be treated as point source under the Clean Water Act. “By including language addressing forest roads, it is my hope that this will finally resolve the issue, help promote jobs and encourage investments in our timber industry that will contribute to growing our economy in Eastern Washington,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. The bill maintains critical assistance for families while stopping fraud and misuse to achieve savings in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). By making common-sense reforms to strengthen program integrity and accountability, savings are reached without removing anyone from the SNAP program and will ensure that every person receives the benefits they are intended to get under the current rules of the program. “I know the importance of the farm bill as it sets forth a framework to guide federal farm policy and programs essential to Eastern Washington for the next five years,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “This legislation is a high priority for our agricultural community and I am pleased with today’s vote and the compromise from both sides of the aisle.” ###
01.23.2014	WASHINGTON, DC– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) will deliver the Republican Address to the Nation following the State of the Union address on Tuesday, January 28, 2014. Now in her fifth term representing Washington’s Fifth District, McMorris Rodgers hails from a farming family with deep roots in Eastern Washington, where she grew up working with her parents and brother at their orchard and fruit stand in Kettle Falls. She was the first in her family to graduate from college and later earned an Executive MBA from the University of Washington. After rising to become minority leader in Washington’s State House, she was elected to Congress, where she serves on the House Energy & Commerce Committee and has been a member of Republican leadership since 2009. As Conference Chair, McMorris Rodgers is the fourth highest-ranking Republican in the House of Representatives. She co-founded the bipartisan Congressional Down Syndrome Caucus and the Congressional Military Family Caucus. She is married to Brian Rodgers, a retired Navy Commander, and they have three children: Cole, 6; Grace, 3; and Brynn, 2 months. Learn more about Cathy in this brief biographical video: “Cathy McMorris Rodgers is proof that with humility, hard work, and dedication, you can overcome any obstacle – a story to which many Americans can relate,” Speaker Boehner said. “Through the lens of her family’s experiences, Cathy will share our vision for a better America built on a thriving middle class, guided by a fierce belief in life and liberty, and grounded in greater trust between citizens and their government. We are grateful to Cathy for lending her voice and perspective to this national occasion.” “Cathy McMorris Rodgers is an excellent choice to present the Republican Address and share an alternative approach to the President’s plans to grow an already enormous federal bureaucracy,” Senator McConnell said. “Her experience, hard work and commitment to family provide an example that Americans outside the halls of Congress understand. A strong advocate of empowering citizens rather than just the federal government, Cathy is the right choice to deliver this important address.” “I am honored to speak with Americans in every corner of the country on Tuesday and to share our Republican vision for a better future – one that trusts the American people and doesn’t limit where you finish because of where you started,” Chair McMorris Rodgers said. NOTE: The Republican Address to the Nation will be live streamed at SOTU.gop.gov. An audio .mp3 of the biographical video can be downloaded here.
01.22.2014	WALLA WALLA, WA.– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today after the grand opening of her new office location in Walla Walla. “We are thrilled to announce the grand opening of our new Walla Walla office,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “While we have had an office in Walla Walla for many years, we’re excited to welcome everyone in the community to our new office location. I invite everyone to stop by, share their opinions, and let us know what we can do to help.” The Walla Walla district office is managed by Deputy District Director, Cathy Schaeffer and she can be contacted at (509) 529-9358. It is located at 26 E. Main Street. Suite 2 in Walla Walla, WA. It is one of three district offices, in addition to McMorris Rodgers’s Spokane and Colville offices. ###
01.22.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. — Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement following House passage of the FY 2014 Omnibus Appropriations bill, which provides $1.012 trillion in base discretionary spending, consistent with the Bipartisan Budget Agreement. “Today the House voted to keep the government open for the next fiscal year to give hardworking people in Eastern Washington the certainty they need to create jobs and grow our economy. We prioritize important programs while cutting wasteful spending. In fact, this bill cuts total discretionary spending for the fourth year in a row, which hasn't happened since the Korean War,” said McMorris Rodgers. The FY 2014 Omnibus Appropriations bill provides critical funding formany of Eastern Washington’s most important priorities. It provides funding for agriculture research programs, including the Agricultural Research Service and Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service;makes smart choices to strengthen national security and military readiness, and provides necessary funding to Fairchild Air Force Base to support America’s troops and military families. This bill also amends the Bipartisan Budget Agreement to ensure that medically retired armed forces personnel and their survivor benefit plan recipients receive their full pension. Halting new funding for Obamacare, the FY 2014 Omnibus Appropriations bill targets investments to disease prevention and medical research. The bill also provides funding to address the needs of our Eastern Washington veterans including funds to help the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) create a seamless electronic health record system with the Department of Defense, funding to help the VA meet its goal of ending the disability backlog claim by 2015, and $250 million for VA rural health initiatives. This legislation also provides funding for national infrastructure investments. “While I continue to fight for a smaller, more efficient government, I am proud of the progress made in this bill that will put our nation on a more fiscally sustainable path and will continue to push for reforms that will bring the federal government to a balanced budget.” ###
01.10.2014	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today after the House passed the Health Exchange Security and Transparency Act of 2014, which will help safeguard personal information submitted to Obamacare exchanges: "Since the launch of the Obamacare website, there's been tremendous concern over the safety of patients' personal and medical information – and this legislation addresses just that. It ensures that security breaches are properly addressed and that Americans are notified immediately if their information has been compromised. In the last few months, it has become increasingly evident that Obamacare is more than just a bad website – it's a bad law. In addition to rising premiums, cancelled policies, and reduced access, I am now hearing from people who are concerned about the security of their most personal information. As an original sponsor of this bill, I will continue to work to promote security and protect the people of Eastern Washington." ###
12.28.2013	In Case You Missed it: Private company to manage forest site Newport Miner – By Fred Willenbrock COLVILLE – The Colville National Forest announced last week the awarding of a 10-year contract that will cost the company $1 million up front and give them the right to purchase $30 million worth of timber. This privatization of management to rehabilitate a large site from planning to implementation is a unique experiment not seen on this scale in any national forest. The stated goal of the Forest Service is to get more forest rehabilitation accomplished than its reduced staff can handle. Employment on the forest has dropped by 70 percent during the past 20 years. The timber industry and its supporters in Congress want more Forest Service timber heading to area mills while improving what they say is very poor forest health because of a lack of logging for a decade. “We’re willing to take a risk to show a better way to manage forests,” said Duane Vaagen, president of Vaagen Brothers Lumber Inc., the sole bidder on the 55,000 acre project in Stevens County. There could be up to 50 million board feet of timber to cut in the deal during the 10-year period. The forest sold 43 mbf in 2013. Vaagen has said the forest should be cutting close to 80 mbf a year. How it works Russ Vaagen, vice-president, said they will pay for the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) and pre sale work. That could cost as much as $1 million. Then the Forest Service will appraise timber in the areas where logging is proposed and Vaagen will have to pay stumpage for it. How much money they make or lose will depend on the price of lumber at the time of the sale. Russ Vaagen is president of Northeast Washington Forestry Coalition, a local group that is made of all stakeholders including local environmental groups. He said this close connection will help them be successful when proposing what to do on the project and avoiding legal action. “Local community cooperation,” said Vaagen when describing how the project will work. “We will capsulate all user interests.” Duane Vaagen said he and Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers, R-Wash., pushed the concept from the beginning. McMorris Rodgers is also sponsoring other legislation in Congress to increase timber harvest on the Colville National Forest. “The Colville National Forest is proud to be on the forefront of innovation in the agency and is looking forward to learning as much as we can from this project to help improve the pace and scale of restoration in the future,” Forest Supervisor Laura Jo West stated in a press release. “This approach will create capacity and flexibility on the forest by contracting out project work that would normally require additional appropriations if completed by Forest Service staff.” McMorris Rodgers stated in a press release that, “We are thrilled to announce that Vaagen Bros. Lumber Inc. has received Colville National Forest’s stewardship contract. One-third of the national forest land managed by the Forest Service is diseased or dying. This funding allows for sufficient management for treating the forest and surrounding areas. “The Colville National Forest is no exception to disease issues and is the economic driver in Ferry, Stevens and Pend Oreille counties and the contract gives the local forest industry the opportunity to create more jobs and better manage the forest,” she said. “Our office has been working on the concept of privately funding forest management for years, pushing to find innovative solutions to allow timberland owned by the Forest Service to create jobs and revenue for counties and schools in northeastern Washington.” The Integrated Resource Service Contract (IRSC) will be used to eventually treat approximately 54,000 acres on the Colville National Forest over a 10-year period. The contract will provide opportunities for restoration work, including the removal of timber and biomass through the treatment of large areas. These larger project areas are the focus of current Forest Service efforts and they have several of their own in the pipeline. The contract is unique in requiring Vaagen Bros. to complete and pay for necessary NEPA planning before harvesting any timber. And if the Forest Service turns down their work plan, Vaagen still pays for the planning work. The contract also allows Vaagen to be paid for reforestation or forest improvement work in their plan either by direct appropriation from the Forest Service or by trade for saleable materials. Large goals Duane Vaagen said he understands the goal is to make the forest healthier while keeping a supply of raw materials for the region’s timber industry. The material will go to their Colville and Usk mills. Vaagen has said in the past that if they can depend on more timber from Forest Service land they could add another shift of up to 100 workers at the Usk mill. “I hope to get wood in a year,” Vaagen said. “It’s too early to tell how much it will cost and other details.” The contract will include various types of work such as pre-commercial thinning, mechanical fuels reduction, road maintenance, and timber product removal, according to Forest Service documents. The contract focuses on end-result ecosystem benefits and outcomes, rather than on what’s removed from the land, according to the documents. The project site is on the forest’s Three Rivers Ranger District, in Stevens County. It is known as Mill Creek A to Z. It is near the Tiger Pass area where the Vaagen family began its long timber industry history. Colville National Forest Public Affairs Officer Franklin Pemberton said federal law requires Vaagen to use an independent contractor to do the NEPA work. This third party contractor will report to Forest Service contract managers. This work may include, but is not limited to, unit layout, cruising, marking, road and trail maintenance; work to improve soil productivity, habitat for wildlife or fisheries, or other resource values; setting prescribed fires; removing vegetation to promote healthy forest stands, reduce fire hazards, or achieve other land management objectives; restore and maintain wildlife and fish habitat; and control noxious and exotic weeds and reestablish native plant species. Forest Service control The Forest Service maintains all government functions it has done in its own forest management projects such as selecting the preferred alternative, Pemberton said. The projects have to go through all the current “screens” used before any action is taken. He said many of the details of the contract implementation have to be worked out. But the Forest Service is watching this closely so they can use it as a model for future projects. Pemberton said there might not be a cost savings for the Forest Service, but if successful, the stewardship projects like A to Z could increase the work that needs to be done in the forest to improve its health. He said the forest staff would continue to do other projects as well. But he pointed out that the staff and budgets are much smaller than 20 years ago. For example, the timber sale administrators went from 118 to 37 since the late 90’s. Even though the focus is on forest health initiatives, Pemberton said they recognize that they need to keep the region’s timber industry healthy as well. Without them nothing would get done on the forests. He said they aren’t at a crisis level like other western forests but they have to stay ahead of it or they could be. Time consuming legal action by environmental groups challenging Forest Service NEPA findings has also been another roadblock for activities on the forest. Pemberton wasn’t sure yet how that would be handled should it come up for the A to Z projects. Russ Vaagen said they would be working closely with environmental groups and others during the planning process before the final NEPA decision is made to avoid legal action. Colville forest health Gayne Sears, Newport/Sullivan Lake District ranger, said during an interview this summer on forest health that she felt they had made improvements but pointed out that staff cuts hindered them. When asked about the public concern that the forest was being overwhelmed by insects and disease, she said that insect and disease rates and effects are considered natural processes in these forested stands. Endemic mortality due to insect and disease provide important habitat for many species and open up patches in the forest to allow for regeneration of young trees. But she also pointed out that the Colville National Forest statistics show that only about 1 to 2 percent of the forest’s trees have problems now with insects or disease. The confusion comes when the timber industry and some political leaders say that a third of national forests in general have these problems. Pemberton said they know the Colville National Forest is in relatively good shape but will become like the rest of the national forests if they don’t speed up rehabilitation efforts. The Forest Service’s Wenatchee insect and disease service center analyzed data produced by a 2012 aerial survey in order to provide land managers with a summary of insect and disease activity in particular areas. Sears said the aerial survey information could give a valuable overview of recent tree damage at the time of the flight. She noted that trees identified as killed by bark beetles were generally attacked in the spring through summer 2011 or the spring of 2012. It takes several months for the crown of a beetle-killed tree to lose its green color. The speed of the color change depends on the condition of the tree at the time of attack. Sears said trees killed on the Newport/Sullivan Lake Ranger District based on the 2012 aerial survey were similar to 2011, and considerably less than 2010. Most reported tree mortality was mountain pine beetle in lodge pole pine. She said trends might be related to several factors both natural and man caused. For example, weather data shows that in 2009 annual rainfall was below average. The reduced rainfall likely triggered increased moisture stress on the trees and reduced their ability to ward off attacks by bark beetles. This may have led to an increase in the numbers of trees successfully attacked in 2009, which generally would not show up on the annual insect and disease flight until 2010. Rainfall was at or above normal for 2010 through 2012 so the trees would have increased vigor and be able to more successfully ward off the bark beetle attacks. Man-caused forest health problems include decades of fire suppression and growing large areas of the same type tree and age. Over the same time period from 2010 through 2012 the Newport/Sullivan Lake Ranger District targeted treating and restoring stands that were at high risk for bark beetle attack. These treatments also support the trend of reduced bark beetle attacks and subsequent mortality. Sears said that their efforts to continue the past decade’s work of restoring forested stands on the Newport/Sullivan Lake District and across the Colville National Forest to healthier and more resilient conditions are focused on two areas. First, they are trying to prevent epidemic outbreaks of insects and disease that kill large areas of the forest. The second is to reduce the risk of large, stand-replacing fires. Sears said, “given the last few years of insect and disease occurrence data, I believe we have made progress toward this goal.” Sears noted that mountain pine beetle, Douglas-fir beetle, western spruce budworm, and Douglas-fir tussock moth are a concern because of their ability to outbreak on a large scale. There have been some recently completed projects to address insect and disease concerns by reducing stand densities to promote the health of the remaining trees. The healthiest and most resilient trees and tree species were retained in these projects: Wolf Trails (Newport Area), Misery (Ruby Creek Area), Hanlon/Scotchman (LeClerc Creek). Future projects include: • Power Lake Project (near Power Peak) – 20,000 acre planning area; planning (NEPA) process completed in 2012; work on the ground will begin in 2014 • Renshaw Project (near Ione) – 13,000 acre planning area; large stands of mature lodge pole in this project area would be treated to prevent epidemic outbreak of insect infestation; currently in the planning (NEPA) process; work proposed to start in 2016 • Limestone (near Canadian border) – planning area is 16,000 acres; inventory work in 2012/13, planning in 2014 work will probably start on ground in 2016. History of logging Sears also addressed concerns that more timber isn’t being harvested in the forest. First she explained that the mission of the Forest Service has changed in the last decade. The number one job isn’t to find more trees to harvest. It is to build and maintain a healthy forest. To do this there will always be logging but it isn’t the first priority. Sears explained that the management philosophy has changed. The long term sustainable yield (LYST) and Allowable Sale Quantities (ASQ) in the 1988 Colville National Forest Plan were based on very aggressive forest management, most of it using logging and replanting techniques. Foresters would harvest stands about every 70 years over the majority of the suitable timber ground. The Colville National Forest Plan, signed in 1988, describes the long-term sustained yield (LTSY) for the forest at 170.7 million board feet (mmbf) per year. Allowable Sale Quantities (ASQ) was 123 mmbf annually for the first four decades then approach the LTSY in decade seven. The forest plan was amended in 1995 to include the Interim Management Direction Establishing Riparian, Ecosystem, and Wildlife Standards for Timber Sales, commonly referred to as the “Eastside Screens.” These are now in place and Vaagen’s plans will be subject to them just like every other project in the forest. These screens are designed by scientists to protect wildlife habitat and decreased the potential harvest levels when compared to the 1988 plan. The forest now manages stands for longer rotations, does not harvest timber from riparian habitat conservation areas, and is practicing forest restoration to increase forest health and resiliency. Sears said that threatened and endangered species laws, new science and identified potential wilderness areas have also resulted in decreased potential harvest levels on the forest. In 2013, the Colville National Forest will sell 43 mmbf, with 20 mmbf coming from the Newport/Sullivan Lake District in Pend Oreille County. The Newport/Sullivan Lake Ranger District Oreille consists of 394,079 acres. There are 1.1 million acres of land on the Colville National Forest in Pend Oreille, Stevens, and Ferry counties.
12.13.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today after the House passed the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013, the National Defense Authorization Act for FY 2014 (NDAA), and a one-month extension of the farm bill. “Today we acted to put our country on a path toward economic security. While the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 isn’t perfect, it reflects the ability of a divided government to reduce the deficit without raising taxes. “Approving the NDAA is vital to our Department of Defense operations to keep us safe at home and abroad. This bill allows us to enhance our national security and modernize our armed forces, including making critical investments in key programs like the Air Force’s KC-46A refueling tanker. It will promote readiness at Fairchild Air Force Base and at all bases across the globe. “The House also passed a one-month extension of the farm bill. This will give Congress additional time to tailor the bill – ensuring that our farmers get the certainty they need. I remain committed to passing a five-year farm bill for the protection and security of Eastern Washington’s farmers and growers. “In the year ahead, I will continue to pursue policies that will bring greater financial and economic certainty to moms, dads, young people and seniors in Eastern Washington. We will do everything we can to get people back to work and make life easier for Americans in every corner of this country.” ###
12.11.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement about the agreement reached between House and Senate Budget Committee Chairmen Paul Ryan (R-WI) and Patty Murray (D-WA): “Today’s budget agreement between Chairmen Paul Ryan and Patty Murray is a step in the right direction on the path toward economic security for hardworking Americans. While this deal includes modest budgetary reforms, it is another positive sign that deficit reduction can be achieved by making real spending cuts and reforms without raising taxes. I will continue to fight for fiscal responsibility so that people in Eastern Washington can have greater financial certainty and economic security for themselves, their families, and their futures.” ###
12.10.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, today submitted a statement for the record at the Natural Resources Committee Field Hearing in Pasco, Washington. The hearing examined the future of the US-Canada Columbia River Treaty. The treaty has been an important priority for McMorris Rodgers during her time in Congress. Here is an excerpt from the statement: “For the last sixty years, the Columbia River Treaty has provided a framework for the United States and Canada to promote the production of clean, renewable, and affordable hydropower. Hydropower is not only vital to Eastern Washington but Washington State gets over 75% of its power from this clean and renewable source of energy. In Central and Eastern Washington, the Columbia and Snake River system through irrigation, transformed a dry, barren desert with sagebrush to one of the most productive agriculture regions in the world. The low price of hydropower brought high tech companies like Google and Yahoo to relocate their servers here and brought manufacturing facilities like the BMW plant in Moses Lake. In addition, the Columbia River Treaty has provided greater protection for the Pacific Northwest against severe flooding. “… As the United States continues to work through the future of the Columbia River Treaty with Canada, I want to ensure that the treaty reflects the true needs of the Pacific Northwest and Eastern Washington.” See the Congresswoman’s full statement below. ### House Natural Resources Committee Oversight Field Hearing on: “The future of the US-Canada Columbia River Treaty-Building on 60 years of Coordinated Power Generation and Flood Control” Monday, December 9, 2013 Pasco, Washington Statement for the Record by Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers I appreciate the opportunity to submit a statement before the House Natural Resources Committee regarding the importance of the United States-Canada Columbia River Treaty and its effect on Eastern Washington. Eastern Washington and the Pacific Northwest depend on a healthy Columbia River system to provide national energy independence, promote public safety, and protect infrastructure. In addition, the Columbia River plays a vital role in the economy of the Pacific Northwest, promoting increased economic growth and development by providing low-cost energy, specifically hydropower, and dependable irrigation and navigation channels. For the last sixty years, the Columbia River Treaty has provided a framework for the United States and Canada to promote the production of clean, renewable, and affordable hydropower. Hydropower is not only vital to Eastern Washington but Washington State gets over 75% of its power from this clean and renewable source of energy. In Central and Eastern Washington, the Columbia and Snake River system through irrigation, transformed a dry, barren desert with sagebrush to one of the most productive agriculture regions in the world. The low price of hydropower brought high tech companies like Google and Yahoo to relocate their servers here and brought manufacturing facilities like the BMW plant in Moses Lake. In addition, the Columbia River Treaty has provided greater protection for the Pacific Northwest against severe flooding. For the past few years, Bonneville Power Administration and the U.S. Corps of Engineers, along with key stakeholders including representatives from Washington, Oregon, Idaho, and Montana, representatives from 10 federal agencies and 15 Native American Tribes have been reviewing the provisions contained in the Columbia River Treaty. I applaud the time and effort they have given to this process. As the United States continues to work through the future of the Columbia River Treaty with Canada, I want to ensure that the treaty reflects the true needs of the Pacific Northwest and Eastern Washington. Specifically, as we consider updating the Columbia River Treaty, we need to modernize the original goals to make power generation, flood control, and overall water management more efficient. It is important that neither the United States nor Canada insert additional domestic goals independent of the original purpose of the Treaty. Moving forward, it is also important that the Columbia River Treaty addresses the need to rebalance the payments to Canada for downstream power generation benefits and long-term flood control operations. With assured flood control set to expire in 2024, it is important that the United States and Canada agree to a framework for how future flood control needs will be addressed. Eastern Washington depends on a healthy Columbia River system to provide low-cost energy, irrigation, and navigation. As such, I want to ensure that as we consider modernizing the Columbia River Treaty, it promotes a more cost-effective, sustainable hydropower system, in addition to providing reliable flood risk management plan.
12.10.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Co-Chair of the bipartisan Congressional Military Family Caucus, recently joined with Congressman Bill Foster (D-IL) to introduce the bipartisan GI Education Benefits Fairness Act, which supports military families by extending GI education benefits to wards and foster children. “We know that when a parent joins the military, it’s not just a job, but a family commitment to our country,” said McMorris Rodgers. “These brave men and women in uniform have protected our nation in hope of a better and brighter future for generations to come. We can all be a part of fulfilling that dream by giving children these important education benefits. As Co-Chair of the bipartisan Congressional Military Family Caucus, I am extremely proud to introduce legislation that will help military children across the country.” Under the current law, wards and foster children across the nation were initially approved by the Department of Defense (DOD) for GI benefits and in some cases received benefits, only to have them later revoked by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). This legislation amends the definition of an “eligible child” for the purposes of transferring benefits under the Post 9/11 Educational Assistance Program to include the DOD definition of a child – which includes wards and foster children.If enacted, the legislation would correct a “bureaucratic nightmare” that has caused some servicemembers’ children to be billed for thousands of dollars in educational benefits for which they were originally approved. Groups supporting the legislation include the Military Officers Association of America (MOAA), Veterans of Foreign Wars (VFW), The American Legion, Student Veterans of America, Association of the United States Navy, and the National Military Family Association and the Foster Parent Association of America. ###
11.26.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the brith of her third child. She is the first to give birth three time while serving in Congress – big brother Cole was born in April 2007 and big sister Grace in December 2010. "Brian, Cole, Grace, and I are thrilled to welcome Brynn Catherine to our family! She was born at 6:19 am on Nov. 24, weighing 7 lbs. 6 oz.. Nothing compares to the miracle of bringing a new life into the world. She's beautiful and seems to be taking it all in stride. Our hearts are full," said McMorris Rodgers. ###
11.22.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today after the House passed several bills to enhance America's energy security and create jobs: "This week the House passed three commonsense bills that will go a long way toward addressing our nation's pressing energy concerns. The Natural Gas Pipeline Permitting Reform Act cuts unnecessary federal regulations and promotes job growth in Eastern Washington’s energy industry; the Federal Lands Jobs and Energy Security Act allows energy development by streamlining the federal permitting process and opening up proven energy reserves; and the Protecting States' Rights to Promote American Energy Security Act limits the Administration’s ability to impose duplicative regulations on hydraulic fracturing on federal lands. All this legislation is designed to cut through the reams of red tape coming out of Washington, D.C. that threaten our domestic energy production and kill American jobs. "Since this President took office, federal oil and natural gas production has declined across the country. In Eastern Washington, we see it affect every demographic, from community college students who have to put gas in their car to drive to class, to seniors struggling to heat their homes, to families forced to pay higher prices at the grocery store, all of us feel the crunch when energy prices rise. And more regulation is not helping. That's what these bills aim to fix. I call on the Senate and the President to do what's right for the American people and swiftly pass these bills." ###
11.15.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today after the House passed H.R. 3350, the Keep Your Health Plan Act, which allows providers to continue to offer health plans that had been terminated as a result of the President’s health care law. “Health care is not a political issue; it’s a personal issue. Nearly 300,000 people in Washington state alone have received notices that their health insurance plans have been cancelled.These are hardworking Americans who are struggling because of Obamacare. Today’s strong bipartisan vote was to help the millions of Americans – our friends and neighbors – who have been told they will lose their health insurance despite the President’s repeated promise that they could keep it. We call on the Senate to pass this legislation quickly, and hold the President accountable to his promise.” To watch the Congresswoman’s floor remarks, click here.
11.13.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today after the Department of Health and Human Services released the latest Obamacare enrollment numbers. About 106,000 people in the U.S. signed up for private health insurance through the Affordable Care Act last month. “The startlingly low Obamacare enrollment numbers released today only further reinforce the widespread failure of this law. It has been six weeks since the launch of the President’s health care law – and with so few Americans choosing to enroll in the exchange, it’s clear that this is far more than just a broken website. It’s a broken law. Too many Americans have already received cancellation notices. Too many Americans have lost their doctors. And too many Americans don’t have affordable insurance options because of Obamacare. We sincerely hope that today’s numbers will encourage the President to listen to these people and join our bipartisan effort to allow Americans to keep their plans. He made a promise – now he should keep it.” ###
11.12.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C.— Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement after the House reauthorized the Prematurity Research Expansion and Education for Mothers who Deliver Infants Early (PREEMIE) Act. This bill bolsters research and expands programs on preterm birth – a cause Rep. McMorris has defended for years. “As a mother of two, I have seen first-hand the importance of this legislation. As a longstanding proponent of a pediatric research network at the NIH, I believe that medical research is the best investment we can make to find new treatments and cures. Establishing a pediatric research network will allow hospitals and medical institutions to pool their resources together and coordinate activities related to pediatric rare diseases or birth defects. It’s important that we bolster research and innovation to reach new achievements in health care.” You can watch the Congresswoman speak in support of this legislation on the House Floor here. ###
10.30.2013	Washington, D.C. —Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference and member of the House Committee and Energy and Commerce, released the following statement after questioning Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius about the failed implementation of Obamacare. “The President promised the American people that if they liked their health insurance, they would be able to keep it. We are now being told that many of our existing plans are lousy or sub-par — leaving some paying more than they can afford or uninsured. “In reality, this law is not helping people find affordable health care, but instead, forcing them to join a struggling Medicaid program. In Washington, 90% of enrollees are participating in Medicaid. Not only will this threaten state budgets with new and unexpected costs, but two out of three doctors do not accept new Medicaid patients. I am concerned that the most vulnerable people in Eastern Washington will be sharing fewer resources with more people. “As the website remains down and unusable 30 days after its release, we see that this is not just a broken website, but a broken law.” Click here to watch the full video clip from today’s hearing. ###
10.28.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C.– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement regarding the memorandum from the Department of Energy (DOE) on the Bonneville Power Association (BPA). “Throughout Eastern Washington and the entire the Pacific Northwest, the Bonneville Power Administration has provided affordable, reliable, and clean energy for millions of families and businesses. It is important that BPA’s management, a ratepayer funded agency, stays within the region and its ratepayers continue to remain decision makers to ensure a well-functioning BPA for the entire region. “While the unfair hiring practice issues that were recently brought to light need to be addressed swiftly, thoroughly, and with transparency, this does not necessitate a direct take-over of Bonneville Power Administration by the Department of Energy. I am committed to carefully monitoring this ongoing situation and will work with my colleagues to ensure BPA continues to operate as a distinct agency from the Department of Energy and that its mission to provide affordable electricity and maintain the region’s hydropower system is not compromised.” ###
10.28.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C.– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Chair of the House Republican Conference, voted today to pass the bipartisan Water Resources and Reform Development Act (WRRDA). This legislation cuts federal red tape, streamlines the delivery process for projects, promotes fiscal responsibility, and strengthens Eastern Washington’s water transportation networks. “This legislation significantly strengthens our water transportation network – creating jobs and increasing commerce while reining in federal government overreach on our Columbia River use. By streamlining the permitting process, corporations like Port of Walla Walla and Port of Clarkston can create more effective water resource infrastructure to boost our local economy,” McMorris Rodgers stated. The legislation eliminated $12 billion of old, inactive projects that were authorized prior to the Water Resources and Development Act that was passed in 2007. Important to Eastern Washington, this bill maximizes the ability of non-federal interests, like ports, to contribute funds to move authorized studies and projects forward. By consolidating studies, WRRDA will accelerate project delivery and promote job growth. “I’m proud that the City of Asotin has also received language in the WRRDA bill that would transfer Corps land to the City and allow for development in the area. I’ve worked with the House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee to ensure that it was included in the WRRDA bill,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Eastern Washington has some of the greatest water networks in our country and they are vital to a healthy economy. This year’s WRRDA bill promotes competitiveness, prosperity, and economic growth in Eastern Washington’s ports and all across America.” ###
10.28.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement honoring former House Speaker Tom Foley (D-WA), who passed away today. “Today, our hearts are heavy. Tom Foley was an honorable leader and colleague. He proudly served Eastern Washington with distinction for 30 years and will be remembered as one of our state’s giants. Eastern Washington agriculture and wheat farmers still benefit today from his leadership as Chairman of the House Agriculture Committee and House Speaker. Foley was highly regarded and respected by Democrats and Republicans and he remains a model for leaders today. “I will miss our visits before the State of the Union or other gatherings where he would reminisce or discuss challenges of the day. Today, let us all come together – here in Spokane and all across America – to send our thoughts and prayers to the family and friends of Tom Foley during this time of mourning.” ###
10.28.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement after the House and Senate both passed a Continuing Resolution to fund the federal government’s budget for 2014 fiscal year and avoid default. “With our vote today, the government is back open, thousands are back to work, and America’s place at the center of the world’s financial system has been ensured. “House Republicans have done everything possible to protect the American people from the arbitrary regulations and unnecessary costs of the President’s health care law. We tried over and over again to engage the Senate in serious negotiations to protect the fiscal health of our nation, reduce the deficit, and bring the debt under control. “We did not accomplish everything we hoped. But, in the end, the Senate agreed to come to the table and start to talk. This temporary solution to reopen the government and make sure we can pay our bills sets up bipartisan negotiations that I hope will lead to common sense solutions on spending and tax reform that is fair to all Americans. “House Republicans are united. We will continue to work to fix an out-of-control government that has so weakened our economy and kept millions out of work. “We have seen during the past few weeks how much Americans love our country – its monuments and parks; its federal agencies that conduct medical research, ensure food safety, provide veteran’s assistance, and help our most vulnerable. Let’s take the barricades down at the Lincoln and World War II memorials, open up Lake Roosevelt, and bring everyone back to work so that we can move forward to fight on behalf of all Americans – the moms, dads, seniors, and young people. “Our government cannot work unless both parties talk and work together to find common ground and common sense solutions. It’s my hope that today’s bill will be the start of serious negotiations and pragmatic solutions to provide fairness for all.” ###
10.09.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today after the House passed the Honoring the Families of Fallen Soldiers Act and the Flight Safety Act: “Today, the House passed bipartisan legislation that provides payment of final expenses to the bereaved families of those who have given the ultimate sacrifice for our country. This will be beneficial to families all across Eastern Washington. In addition, we passed a bill that would fund the Federal Aviation Administration so Americans can continue to travel without interruption. We are working every day to protect hardworking Americans from the harmful effects of this government shutdown. “Despite our disagreements with the President and Senate Democrats, I am confident we can find common ground. There are tough decisions to be made, but that’s what Eastern Washington elected me to do. I urge the President and Senate Democrats to sit down with House Republicans so we can work together to solve the major problems facing this country. We're nine days into this government shutdown; it's time for a conversation." ###
09.18.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Chair of the House Republican Conference, applauded the passage of H.R. 761, The National Strategic and Critical Minerals Production Act in the House today. This bipartisan bill will allow states to more effectively mine and maintain critical minerals, such as rare earth elements. “This bill is vital in promoting job growth and economic competitiveness in Eastern Washington and all across America. Without critical mineral ingredients, entire sectors of our domestic economy – such as agriculture, technology, national security, health care and transportation – are put at risk,” said McMorris Rodgers. “From our car motors and brakes, medical X-rays and MRIs, and even for treatment of our drinking water, we all take advantage of rare earth elements every single day.” “Because of the White House’s oppressive government red tape, frivolous lawsuits and a burdensome permitting process, domestic mining jobs have been put at risk and manufacturing jobs are at the mercy of foreign sources. The legislation we passed today will change that; it will enhance our national security, reduce our dependence on foreign resources, and bring jobs back to American soil.” H.R. 761 sets the total review process for permitting at 30 months. At times, it can take over a decade to get through the government process and regulations, which puts the United States last of twenty-five major mining countries in permitting delays. ###
09.12.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C.– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Chair of the House Republican Conference, voted today to pass the bipartisan No Subsidies Without Verification Act. The legislation, co-sponsored by McMorris Rodgers, ensures that the Administration must verify eligibility before individuals receive insurance subsidies for ObamaCare exchanges. “Today the House voted to bring greater accountability to the federal government and put an end to the fraudulent payments under the President’s health care law. Our bipartisan legislation, authored by Rep. Diane Black (R-TN), addresses one of the most unworkable parts of the law: an existing verification system that is tremendously vulnerable to fraud. With enrollment in ObamaCare exchanges set to begin in less than a month – and with subsidies being provided to anyone who claims they’re eligible – this must be solved. And the legislation the House passed today does just that,” said Rep McMorris Rodgers. In 2012 alone, the Department of Health and Human Services gave out $64 billion in improper payments. The Wall Street Journal reported that passing the No Subsidies Without Verification Act could save taxpayers more than $250 billion in improper payments. “This legislation protects everyone in Eastern Washington from a system that is both irresponsible and fraudulent. It saves billions of taxpayer dollars in improper payments and holds the Administration accountable to the American people. We urge the Senate to pass the No Subsidies Without Verification Act, and implore the President to sign it into law immediately.” To watch McMorris Rodgers’s full remarks on the House floor, click here. ###
09.11.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C.– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) released the following statement today to mark the twelfth anniversary of the September 11th attacks. “On this day twelve years ago, the American people were attacked by enemies of freedom and adversaries of democracy. We were shaken by a brutal act of war that forever changed our hearts and strengthened our resolve. “Today we remember the firefighters who ran into those burning buildings, the heroes of United Flight 93, and all the moms and dads who left for work that morning and never came home. We remember the courage of the first responders, the selflessness of strangers, and the prayers that were echoed with heavy hearts around the world. We remember a nation in mourning, bound by a shared love of America and an unwavering commitment to its people. “While we remember those who lost their lives on that Tuesday morning in September, let us also pay homage to the fallen soldiers – from Fairchild and all across the country – who have defended America in the War on Terror. Let us remember First Lieutenant Mathew Fazzari, whose life was cut short while supporting Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan; and Sergeant First Class Wyatt Goldsmith, from Colville, who lost his life in an effort to save someone else’s. “Twelve years after the deadly attack on September 11, we remain more committed than ever to protecting American freedom, defeating terrorism around the world, and preserving an American spirit that remains unshakable. But today, let us simply remember.” ###
09.11.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C.– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) released the following statement today to mark the one-year anniversary of the attack on the American Embassy in Benghazi on September 11, 2012: “This week we memorialize the four brave Americans who tragically lost their lives at the American Embassy in Benghazi last year. As we pay homage to their legacy, we are emboldened in our search for answers. Our oversight investigation in the House is still ongoing. I remain more committed than ever to provide answers about what happened in Benghazi and to hold the President accountable to the American people. Four brave Americans lost their lives in this attack, and we will continue our search for answers until we determine who was responsible.” ###
09.03.2013	McMorris Rodgers Reaffirms Commitment to Keep Felts Field Air Traffic Control Tower Open SPOKANE, WA– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers today visited and toured the facilities at Felts Field, including, most prominently, the air traffic control tower that provides invaluable benefit to the region. She released the following statement after her visit: “My visit to Felts Field today only further reaffirmed my commitment to ensure that the air traffic control tower remains open. It plays an active and integral role in the safety, economy and technological advancement of Eastern Washington – and by keeping the tower open, we will continue to preserve jobs in our community, especially for local veterans. “Felts Field is home to over 250 aircrafts and 57 tenants, including Northwest MedStar Critical Care Transport Service, Spokane Turbine Center, Moody Aviation School, Spokane Community College, Rocket Engineering, Eagle Helicopter, GARCO Construction, and Inland Construction. Felts Field has maintained manned air traffic control for decades – and I will continue to do all that I can to make sure it remains open for many more decades to come.” This past year, Rep. McMorris Rodgers initiated a dialogue with House Leadership, in addition to Chairman of the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Bill Shuster regarding the importance of the Felts Field contract tower in providing safety and security to the region. Additionally, in April, she sent a letter to FAA Administrator Michael Huerta, to express concern over the FAA’s decision to close 149 contract control towers due to sequestration. ###
08.28.2013	COLVILLE, WA – Today, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) held a Summit with a panel of local business and community leaders involved in the Colville National Forest to discuss how to more effectively utilize Forest Service land to promote healthier forests, reduce the risks of forest fires, and strengthen rural economies. Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers said, “The Colville National Forest is the economic engine for our Northeastern Washington counties and healthy forests mean healthy communities. Of the 1.1 million acre Colville National Forest, over 300,000 acres are bug infested. In addition, it has the potential to bring more jobs, recreation and increased local revenue to Ferry, Stevens, and Pend Oreille counties.” The federal government made a promise over a century ago to actively manage our forests and provide 25% of revenues for schools and counties impacted by National Forest land. But declining timber harvests has meant dramatically less revenue. McMorris Rodgers is an original sponsor of H.R. 1526, Restoring Healthy Forests for Healthy Communities Act. It directs the Forest Service to meet specific harvest levels in certain areas, will help improve forest health and prevent catastrophic wildfires, extends supplemental Secure Rural Schools payments for one year, and would improve local forest management by allowing counties to actively manage portions of National Forest land through the creation of “Community Forest Demonstration Areas.” The bill is expected to be on the House Floor this fall. McMorris Rodgers has also been working for the past two years to initiate an innovative public-private partnership in the national forest. The “A to Z” Mill Creek Pilot Project sets up a 10-year contract on 50,000 acres in the Colville National Forest. It allows a private company to use private dollars for everything after the timber sale is laid out, including the pre-sale environmental requirements and NEPA. With private funds and local management, the Colville National Forest can be managed for healthier forests and stable, sustainable revenue. According to McMorris Rodgers, the Washington Department of Natural Resources produces seven times the timber from one-quarter of the acreage as the Forest Service in Washington state. “The Forest Service should work with the timber industry to create jobs and revenue at a time when they are badly needed, while still protecting the environment and ensuring a sustainable harvest. This pilot project will show how it can be done, and I want Ferry, Stevens and Pend Oreille counties to be model for the rest of the country.” The winning bid will be announced in September. ###
08.13.2013	President Obama Signs Rep. McMorris Rodgers’ bipartisan Hydropower Bill WASHINGTON, D.C.– Today President Obama signed into law the bipartisan Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act, sponsored by Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers. The legislation speeds development of small hydropower projects throughout the country. McMorris Rodgers released the following statement. “I am honored that President Obama signed this important piece of legislation. In Eastern Washington, hydropower plays a pivotal role – whether it’s conventional, small, or conduit hydro – it provides 75 percent of electricity to the Pacific Northwest and represents a unique opportunity for job creation and energy production.” “Hydropower is clean, reliable, renewable and affordable. Unleashing American ingenuity to increase its production will lower energy costs and help create thousands of jobs. The future of American energy independence depends on the development of an ‘all of the above’ energy approach – in which hydro must play a crucial role. This new law will create jobs and bolster America’s competitiveness in the energy sector.” The Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act passed unanimously in both the House and Senate. ###
08.01.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), authors of H.R. 267, the Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act, applauded the unanimous approval of their bill in the U.S. Senate today. Their legislation will facilitate the development of small hydropower and conduit projects and direct the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to study the feasibility of a streamlined two-year permitting process. “In Eastern Washington, hydropower plays a pivotal role – whether it’s conventional, small, or conduit hydro – it provides 75 percent of electricity to the Pacific Northwest and represents a unique opportunity for job creation and energy production. It’s clean, reliable, renewable and affordable. Unleashing American ingenuity to increase hydropower production will lower energy costs and help create thousands of jobs. The future of American energy independence depends on the development of an ‘all of the above’ energy approach – in which hydro must play a crucial role. Our bill is timely and targeted and it will create jobs and bolster America’s competitiveness in the energy sector,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “With the Senate passage of our bill, today we launch a new path toward smarter, more efficient hydropower project permitting, and it’s a victory for us all that we are doing so on a bipartisan basis,” said Rep. DeGette. “For a state like Colorado, and indeed the entire nation, this legislation will expand renewable and affordable hydropower – far and away our nation’s largest source of clean energy – and create good jobs for American families. We now look forward to the President signing this bill into law as a bipartisan initiative that helps get Americans back to work and takes a step forward in our nation’s clean energy leadership.” The Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act passed with unanimous support in the House on February 13th, 2013. ###
08.01.2013	McMorris Rodgers Votes to Protect Eastern Washington’s Students WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) voted today to make college more affordable for students in Eastern Washington and all across America. In a largely bipartisan vote, the House passed H.R. 1911, the Bipartisan Student Loan Certainty Act of 2013 , which moves all new federal student loans to a permanent, market-based interest rate. “As the first in my family to have graduated from college – and as someone who is still paying off my own student loans – I know firsthand the challenges students face when it comes to paying for school,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “That’s why I am proud the House voted today to remove politics from students’ wallets and give them long-term certainty as they pursue their careers. In an economy that is deeply rooted in education and innovation, I am proud to help Eastern Washington’s students find jobs and pursue greater educational opportunities,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “The House has been working on a solution for student loans for months, and I am glad Eastern Washington’s students no longer have to pay the price for the Senate’s inaction. I look forward to getting this bill to the President’s desk and signed into law as soon as possible.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers recently wrote an op-ed in USA Today addressing the student loan crisis. You can read the full op-ed here. ###
07.31.2013	McMorris Rodgers Applauds Japan’s Decision to Resume Pacific Northwest White Wheat Purchases WASHINGTON, D.C. –Ending months of uncertainty for wheat growers in Eastern Washington, Japan resumed purchasing Western White wheat today. “This is great news for wheat growers in Eastern Washington. Family wheat farms are one of the largest economic drivers of jobs in Eastern Washington, generating nearly $1 billion in production value," said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. "The Pacific Northwest provides reliable, high-quality wheat and I am glad that Japan, a key trading partner, will resume its purchase of wheat from the U.S." Rep. McMorris Rodgers sent a letter to the United States Department of Agriculture’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) last month, urging them to conduct its investigation in a judicious and expeditious manner. She subsequently encouraged APHIS to continue to dissuade Japan from looking for alternative suppliers. According to U.S. Wheat officials, Japan has tendered a purchase order of 90,000 metric tons of Western White wheat, which is a blend of varieties called soft white wheat and club wheat. Both varieties are grown in the Pacific Northwest. In addition, USDA will continue to work with all international trading partners to ensure continued market access for U.S wheat. ###
07.15.2013	WASHINGTON– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and her husband, Brian Rodgers, today issued the following special announcement about their family: “Being a wife and mother have been the most wonderful and blessed experiences in my life. For some time, Brian and I have hoped we would be able to have another child, so it is with great joy we announce that we are expecting our third in December. “I look forward to continuing my duties as Conference Chair and running again for re-election next year to represent the great people of Eastern Washington. Both Cole and Grace were born while I was a member of Congress, so we will continue to balance the challenges of parenting young children and working – just like countless moms and dads all across America. “Your continued support and prayers are greatly appreciated.” The Rodgers’, who make their home in Spokane, Washington, have two children, Cole (6) and Grace (2). McMorris Rodgers is the first Member of Congress to give birth twice while in office. ###
06.18.2013	Rep. McMorris Rodgers Urges USDA to Find Source of Genetically Engineered Wheat Discovered in Oregon Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers sent a letter to Mr. Kevin Shea, Acting Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) Monday, requesting an investigation timeline and a formal meeting to discuss the genetically engineered wheat found in Oregon earlier this month. The following are excerpts from the letter. “Wheat growers play a significant role in Eastern Washington’s economy and I am concerned that Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan, key trading partners, have delayed purchases of white wheat. As such, I want to ensure that they do not look for alternative suppliers. We need to assure all of our trading partners that the Northwest will continue to provide a reliable supply of high-quality wheat. Therefore, it is important that APHIS determine how this occurrence happened…” “…Moving forward, I request that APHIS provide a timeline for this investigation. Due to Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan delaying purchases of white wheat, wheat growers in Eastern Washington are already experiencing a decline in wheat prices. Knowing that the start of harvest is imminent, I am concerned that if harvest begins and APHIS is still unable to determine how this occurrence happened, wheat prices will continue to remain depressed.” The full text of the letter follows: ### June 17, 2013 Mr. Kevin Shea Acting Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service United States Department of Agriculture 1400 Independence Ave, SW Washington, DC 20250 Dear Administrator Shea: The discovery of genetically engineered wheat on an Oregon farm is a serious matter that has far reaching consequences for wheat growers in Eastern Washington. As such, I write to encourage the U.S. Department of Agriculture Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) to conduct their investigation into this occurrence in a judicious and expeditious manner. As APHIS continues their investigation, it is important to determine what classification of wheat found in Oregon was genetically engineered. From agriculture stakeholders in Eastern Washington, I understand that it is easier to determine the classification of wheat than to test and determine whether it has been genetically engineered. To that end, I question why APHIS has been unable to determine what classification of wheat was genetically engineered. In addition, it is my understanding that APHIS has failed to accept assistance from key stakeholder organizations, like the Washington Crop Improvement Association, and universities. In addition to possessing first-hand knowledge of the wheat community in Eastern Oregon and Washington, these organizations are industry leaders, known for their exceptional and ground-breaking agriculture research. As such, I question why APHIS has been unwilling to utilize these organizations for their knowledge and expertise regarding wheat, specifically wheat grown in the Pacific Northwest. Wheat growers play a significant role in Eastern Washington’s economy and I am concerned that Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan, key trading partners, have delayed purchases of white wheat. As such, I want to ensure that they do not look for alternative suppliers. We need to assure all of our trading partners that the Northwest will continue to provide a reliable supply of high-quality wheat. Therefore, it is important that APHIS determine how this occurrence happened. Moving forward, I request that APHIS provide a timeline for this investigation. Due to Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan delaying purchases of white wheat, wheat growers in Eastern Washington are already experiencing a decline in wheat prices. Knowing that the start of harvest is imminent, I am concerned that if harvest begins and APHIS is still unable to determine how this occurrence happened, wheat prices will continue to remain depressed. Finally, I would like to request a meeting with you to receive a formal update on APHIS’s investigation, specifically discussing the expanse of this occurrence. If there is anything I can do to facilitate the meeting, please do not hesitate to contact me. Sincerely, Cathy McMorris Rodgers Member of Congress Cc: Secretary Tom Vilsack, Secretary of Agriculture, United States Department of Agriculture
06.14.2013	Washington, D.C.– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) continued her efforts to strengthen our nation’s military and provide the necessary support to our brave servicemen and servicewomen by voting in favor of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2014, which passed with bipartisan support. “It is vital we ensure that our troops, both at home and abroad, have access to the proper equipment and necessary training to safely execute their missions,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “This legislation will allow us to enhance our national security, modernize our Armed Forces, including making critical investments in key programs, like the Air Force’s KC-46A refueling tanker, and invest in the resources needed to protect the United States from current and future threats. “The NDAA also seeks to combat sexual assault in the military by including provisions that promote reporting, prosecuting, and preventing retaliation. Sexual assault will not be tolerated and has no place in our Armed Forces,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. Consistent with the House Budget, the bill authorizes $552 billion in spending for national defense efforts and operations and $85.8 billion for Overseas Contingency Operations. Rep. McMorris Rodgers continues, “As a former member of the House Armed Services Committee and a representative of military families at Fairchild Air Force Base and across Eastern Washington, I am committed to ensuring that our national defense remains a top priority and that our service members and their families have access to the resources they need.” ###
06.13.2013	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and Rep. Earl Blumenauer (D-OR) are the co-chairs of the bipartisan, Congressional Neurosciences Caucus. The Caucus hosted the briefing Wednesday on Capitol Hill, in Washington D.C. The group discussed federal funding for the BRAIN Initiative, a public-private plan to further brain science. After the briefing, Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers released the following statement. “I was excited to learn about the NIH BRAIN Initiative from Dr. Francis Collins today. This new initiative will provide a research framework that will ultimately help Americans who have Alzheimer’s disease, autism, Down syndrome, ALS, and many other diseases of the brain, McMorris Rodgers said. This initiative will leverage public-private efforts in order to speed scientific discovery and open doors to understanding how the brain works. I was thrilled to learn that one of the BRAIN Initiative partners is the Allen Institute for Brain Science in Seattle. Washington State has been the home of innovation and I look forward to what we will learn in this Initiative.” ###
06.10.2013	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers released the following statement on the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s decision to delist the gray wolf from the endangered species list. "I applaud the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s proposal to delist the gray wolf as an endangered species. It is long overdue. We need to ensure wolf management is done in a realistic manner, taking into account the needs of Eastern Washington, which has nine known wolf packs,” said Cathy McMorris Rodgers. “I am confident that champions like Senator John Smith and Representatives Joel Kretz and Shelly Short will continue to oversee proper management at the State level. I am committed to a solution that makes sense for Eastern Washington and protects our livestock and farming communities." ###
06.05.2013	Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Bill Will Have a Positive Impact on Eastern Washington Veterans and Military Families Washington, D.C. – The House approved the fiscal year 2014 Military Construction and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Bill today. This bill provides $73 billion to our nation’s military and veterans and builds the infrastructure needed to house, train, and equip military personnel including our Guard and Reserve members. It supports a quality of life for our servicemen and women and their families. The bill also funds veterans’ benefits and programs to ensure that all veterans receive the services they need and deserve. “This bill tackles the VA’s biggest issues. Our veterans have made tremendous sacrifices to protect our freedoms and we must work to ensure that all veterans receive the services they need and have earned for their dedication and sacrifice to our nation, said Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers. Providing funds for mental health care, traumatic brain injury, suicide prevention, and rural health initiatives, this bill is especially important to Eastern Washington. McMorris Rodgers continues, “I have heard from Eastern Washington veterans who have waited too long for claims to be processed. It’s time we invest in a system that addresses this backlog to better support our veterans’ who fought to defend our freedoms.” To help the Department of Veteran Affairs (VA) meet their goal of ending the disability claim backlog by 2015, the bill provides funding for the paperless claims process system and funding for digital scanning of health records.Furthermore, implementing reporting requirements to track the performance of each regional office handling Veterans Affair’s disability claims, the House seeks to ensure that that progress is made and claims don’t continue to pile up. ###
05.22.2013	McMorris Rodgers Reacts to Air Force Decision toSelect Fairchild Air Force Base as Reasonable Alternate Base forFirst Home of KC-46A Refueling Tankers Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) released the following statement today after the Air Force named Fairchild Air Force Base as a “reasonable alternate base” to serve as the first “main operating base” (MOB) to host the new KC-46A refueling tankers. “The Air Force has a contract with Boeing to build 179 KC-46A refueling tankers. It is important to remember that this is only the first installment of 36 tankers. While it was our hope that Fairchild would be the preferred base to host the next-generation refueling tankers, today’s announcement included recognition that Fairchild is a vibrant and busy base, and will compete well for new tankers. As the Air Force continues to base KC-46A refueling tankers at additional installations over the next few years, I am confident that Fairchild will compete very well. It is a great base and will have a valuable mission moving forward.” “For over a decade, our community has worked together to let the Air Force know we believe Fairchild is the ideal location. I want to thank our community leaders – civilian and military; public sector and private sector; and officials in both parties – for their commitment and teamwork. We have a lot to be proud of, and our efforts for Fairchild will continue.” As part of being named a reasonable alternate base for the first MOB, the Air Force is preparing an Environmental Impact Statement for Fairchild and next year, the Air Force will make its final basing decision. “I look forward to continuing to work with the Air Force, our Fairchild leaders, and all of our community leaders to ensure that Fairchild is a future home of the KC-46A refueling tankers.” For the past nine years, Rep. McMorris Rodgers has led an annual meeting between Spokane leaders and high-ranking Pentagon officials in Washington, D.C. to discuss ways to bolster Fairchild, the largest employer in Eastern Washington. On April 17, 2013, she led a letter with Sen. Patty Murray (D-WA) and Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) to Air Force Secretary Michael B. Donley, advocating for Fairchild to become the first home for the KC-46A refueling tankers. The letter was signed by the entire Washington state Congressional delegation. The KC-46A refueling tanker is intended to replace the U.S. Air Force's aging fleet of KC-135 Stratotankers, which has been the primary refueling aircraft for more than 50 years. With more refueling capacity and enhanced capabilities, improved efficiency and increased capabilities for cargo and aeromedical evacuation, the KC-46A refueling tanker will provide aerial refueling support to the Air Force, Navy, Marine Corps as well as allied nation coalition force aircraft. ###
03.26.2013	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), House Republican Conference Chair and Co-Chair of the Congressional Neuroscience Caucus, addressed members of the Society of Neuroscience this week. The Society is the world’s largest organization of scientists and physicians devoted to understanding the brain and nervous system, and Rep. McMorris Rodgers urged them to partner with Congress to identify ambitious goals the entire country can support – such as finding cures for Alzheimer’s disease and other neurological diseases. “History teaches us that it is the ambitious goal that drives policy and innovation. In 1961, President John F. Kennedy didn’t say that he was going to increase NASA’s budget by 82 percent. He told us, ‘We are going to the moon,’” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “I urge you to partner with Congress to help decrease neurological diseases in America. Together, I know we can make it happen.” McMorris Rodgers outlined several ideas including “turning our best and brightest” loose on these problems with an emphasis on the scientist rather than on overly structured and incremental programs; rewarding research collaboration; and streamlining duplicative research efforts. She touted the Allen Brain Institute in Washington State as an example of a research organization that has embraced these ideals and contributed greatly to the understanding of neurological disease. To learn more about the Congressional Neuroscience Caucus, click here. ###
03.06.2013	Washington, D.C. –Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) was honored yesterday by the Washington Farm Bureau (WFB) with their 2013 “Friend of Farm Bureau” Award. The WFB is the state’s largest general farm organization, representing the economic and social interests of more than 41,000 member families. The award is presented to members of the state’s Congressional delegation who achieved an 80 percent or greater vote on significant legislation identified by the WFB. “As someone who grew up on a farm in Eastern Washington, and with agriculture being our number-one industry, I am honoredto accept this very special award,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “I am proud to work with the Washington Farm Bureau to accomplish our shared goals, including the expansion of new trade markets, reduction of energy prices, and the discontinuation of burdensome and unnecessary regulations. I will continue to fight every day for Eastern Washington’s farmers and ranchers in our community.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which covers many issues that affect Eastern Washington’s agriculture industry, including oversight over the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). She helped lead the fight against the EPA’s dust particulate regulations, which would have been devastating to America’s farmers and ranchers. She is also a strong champion of the Agriculture Research Service. She was instrumental in securing a one-year extension of the farm bill. To learn more about Rep. McMorris Rodgers’s work for Eastern Washington’s agriculture community, click here. ###
02.13.2013	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), authors of H.R. 267, the Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act of 2013, applauded the unanimous approval of their bill in the House of Representatives today. The final vote was 422-0. Their legislation would facilitate the development of small hydropower and conduit projects and direct the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to study the feasibility of a streamlined two-year permitting process. The bill now moves to the Senate. “Hydro plays a crucial role in Eastern Washington – whether it’s conventional, small, or conduit hydro,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “In fact, hydropower provides 75 percent of electricity to Eastern Washington and to the Pacific Northwest region. While there are a vast array of renewable energies – including solar, wind, and nuclear power – in my opinion, the facts are clear: the future of American energy independence depends on the development of an ‘all of the above’ energy approach – including hydro. That’s why Congresswoman DeGette and I have been working to expand hydropower production. Our bill is timely and targeted and it will create jobs and bolster America’s competitiveness in the energy sector.” In the 112th Congress, the House of Representatives unanimously passed H.R. 5892, which made the hydropower regulatory process more efficient. While there was bipartisan support for the bill in the Senate, it did not come to a vote before the end of the session. The Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act of 2013 introduces a chance to expand clean and affordable energy during the 113th Congress. The original co-sponsors of this legislation include Rep. John Dingell (D-MI), Rep. Bob Latta (R-OH), Rep. Ben Ray Lujan (D-NM), Rep. Lee Terry (R-NE), Rep. Ed Markey (D-MA), Rep. Cory Gardner (R-CO), Rep. Jim Matheson (D-UT), and Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR). To watch Rep. McMorris Rodgers’s remarks on the House floor, click here.
02.07.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Chair of the House Republican Conference, was honored by the National Organization of State Offices of Rural Health (NOSORH) as “Legislator of the Year” for her outstanding work in promoting the quality of health care for those in rural America. “As someone who grew up on a family farm in rural Eastern Washington, I know that rural communities have unique needs – and face significant challenges – when it comes to accessing quality health care. I am honored to accept this year’s ‘Legislator of the Year’ award,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. Rep. McMorris Rodgers serves as Co-Chair of the Rural Health Care Coalition and introduced the Rural Hospital and Provider Equity (R-HoPE) Act with Rep. Mike Thompson (D-CA) in the 112th Congress. She also co-authored the Primary Care Workforce Access Improvement Act of 2013, which would promote the training of primary care physicians in rural areas. “It’s time for us to reduce challenges those in rural America face – and the National Organization of State Offices of Rural Health makes that possible. This is an organization whose mission I wholeheartedly support, and I am looking forward to continuing our relationship to help those in America’s rural communities.” ###
02.05.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), House Republican Conference Chair, joined House Republican Leadership in a press conference today to promote the “Require a PLAN Act,” which would require President Obama to inform the American people when he plans to balance the budget and eliminate the deficit. “Yesterday, it was mentioned, the President for the fourth time out of the last five years failed to meet his legal requirement to submit a budget to Congress. So the President and the Senate Democrats are failing on what is really the most fundamental part of governing, the fundamental responsibility in governing, which is budgeting. And it’s not Washington that suffers when this happens, but it is hardworking Americans all across this country. It is the moms, the dads, the seniors, the small business owners, the recent college grads, that can’t make decisions to move forward. “When Washington is the biggest obstacle to economic growth, we have a problem. And we are not going to have prosperity, we’re not going to have people that know how to make hiring decisions, that know how to invest, be able to move forward until there is a budget in place. Families, small businesses and households understand that if you don’t have a budget, you’re going to fail. And Washington, DC and the federal government are in the same boat. “So I’m pleased that we’re moving forward on the ‘Require a PLAN Act’ that will require the president to let the American people know when he plans to balance the budget, and when he plans to pay off this deficit. It is the first step to not only getting our fiscal house in order, but to allowing our economy to move forward so that people can make decisions to invest, to hire, and to have their businesses succeed.” To watch her remarks, click here. ###
02.04.2013	Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), House Republican Conference Chair, joined Rep. Mike Thompson (D-CA) today to introduce the Primary Care Workforce Access Improvement Act of 2013. Their bill promotes the training of primary care physicians in rural areas and tests innovative and cost-neutral ways to distribute graduate medical education (GME) payments for the purpose of increasing the number and quality of primary care physicians in the United States. “As we continue to address the disparities in rural health care, one issue stands out: the shortage of primary care physicians,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Our legislation encourages residents to train in rural areas like Eastern Washington. Once they complete residency, doctors usually stay in the area where they train, so our legislation is a vital first step to improving access to primary care in rural areas.” The bipartisan Primary Care Workforce Access Improvement Act of 2013 will modernize primary care training by implementing pilot programs to test various models of providing funding to entities that train primary care physicians. This will be beneficial to hospitals, physicians, and residents in rural and underserved areas. The bill also mandates an Institute of Medicine (IOM) study to examine the impact of the pilot program on the quantity, quality, and distribution of primary care physicians compared to non-participants of the program. “It’s time for us to reduce the challenges those in rural America face when it comes to accessing quality health care. This legislation gives physicians an incentive to practice medicine in rural communities – and as a result, it will be tremendously beneficial for the hospitals and residents in those areas. I look forward to joining my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to bring this legislation to a vote on the House floor.” ###
02.01.2013	“We Must Expand an Energy Source That Will Lower Costs and Create Thousands of Jobs” Spokane, WA – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) hosted a successful roundtable discussion today on the importance of domestic energy expansion and the unique regional and national benefits of hydropower. Joined by a group of prominent stakeholders and leaders in the energy industry, McMorris Rodgers provided an update on the Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act of 2013 and invited participants to discuss the benefits of hydropower from varying perspectives. “As a Member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, I am eager to advance an ‘all of the above’ energy strategy – and in doing that, I’ve joined with colleagues on both sides of the aisle to ensure that our nation’s largest, cleanest, most affordable and most renewable energy source is included – and that’s hydropower,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “The potential of hydropower is tremendous. Washington State alone gets over 75% of its power from this clean and renewable source of energy – and we owe it to the Pacific Northwest and to the rest of America to expand an energy source that will not only lower costs, but create thousands of jobs.” The bipartisan Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act of 2013, co-authored by Reps. Cathy McMorris Rodgers and Diana DeGette (D-CO) recently passed the House Energy and Commerce Committee with unanimous approval and will now be considered by the full House of Representatives. The legislation will streamline the hydropower permitting process for small hydropower and conduit projects, which will facilitate the regulatory approval process for hydropower development. “From my perspective in Congress, I will do everything I can to help unleash American ingenuity to increase hydropower production, lower energy costs, and expand domestic energy production in an affordable and cost-effective manner. Promoting hydropower is the first step toward achieving that goal.” McMorris Rodgers was joined in today’s roundtable by: Dan Boettger, Okanogan PUD; John Grubich, Okanogan PUD; Chad Jensen, CEO, Inland Power; John Janney, Chelan County PUD; Larry LaBolle, Avista; Andrew Munro, Grant County PUD; Dan Peterson, Pend Oreille PUD; and Fred Rettenmund, Inland Power. ###
01.22.2013	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), authors of H.R. 267, the Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act of 2013, applauded the House Energy and Commerce Committee’s unanimous approval of their bill today. Their legislation would facilitate the development of small hydropower and conduit projects and direct the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to study the feasibility of a streamlined two-year permitting process. The bill will now be considered by the full House of Representatives. “Hydro plays a crucial role in Eastern Washington – whether it’s conventional, small, or conduit hydro,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “In fact, hydropower provides 75 percent of electricity to Eastern Washington and to the Pacific Northwest region. While there are a vast array of renewable energies – including solar, wind, and nuclear power – in my opinion, the facts are clear: the future of American energy independence depends on the development of an ‘all of the above’ energy approach – including hydro. That’s why Congresswoman DeGette and I have been working to expand hydropower production. Our bill is timely and targeted and it will create jobs and bolster America’s competitiveness in the energy sector.” In the 112th Congress, the House of Representatives unanimously passed H.R. 5892, which made the hydropower regulatory process more efficient. While there was bipartisan support for the bill in the Senate, it did not come to a vote before the end of the session. The Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act of 2013 introduces a chance to expand clean and affordable energy during the 113th Congress. The original co-sponsors of this legislation include Rep. John Dingell (D-MI), Rep. Bob Latta (R-OH), Rep. Ben Ray Lujan (D-NM), Rep. Lee Terry (R-NE), Rep. Ed Markey (D-MA), Rep. Cory Gardner (R-CO), Rep. Jim Matheson (D-UT), and Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR). ###
01.15.2013	Washington, D.C.– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Chair of the House Republican Conference and Member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, joined Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) today to reintroduce H.R. 267, the Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act of 2013. This bipartisan bill would facilitate the development of small hydropower and conduit projects and direct the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to study the feasibility of a streamlined two-year permitting process. “I’m so proud to join my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to reintroduce this bill,” said McMorris Rodgers. “In Eastern Washington, hydropower plays a pivotal role – whether it’s conventional, small, or conduit hydro – it provides 75 percent of electricity to the Pacific Northwest and represents a unique opportunity for job creation and energy production. It’s clean, reliable, renewable and affordable. Unleashing American ingenuity to increase hydropower production will lower energy costs and help create thousands of jobs. The future of American energy independence depends on the development of an ‘all of the above’ energy approach – and I’m proud that hydro is finally on its way to being part of it.” “Today we launch a new path toward smarter, more efficient hydropower project permitting, and it’s a victory for us all that we are doing so on a bipartisan basis,” said DeGette. “For a state like Colorado, and indeed the entire nation, this legislation will expand renewable and affordable hydropower – far and away our nation’s largest source of clean energy – and create good jobs for American families. Together, the House will continue the bipartisan spirit in which the Act was created, to help get Americans back to work and take a step forward in our nation’s clean energy leadership.” In the 112th Congress, the House of Representatives unanimously passed H.R. 5892, which made the hydropower regulatory process more efficient. While there was bipartisan support for the bill in the Senate, it did not come to a vote before the end of the session. The Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act of 2013 introduces a chance to expand clean and affordable energy during the 113th Congress. The original co-sponsors of this legislation include Rep. John Dingell (D-MI), Rep. Bob Latta (R-OH), Rep. Ben Ray Lujan (D-NM), Rep. Lee Terry (R-NE), Rep. Ed Markey (D-MA), Rep. Jim Matheson (D-UT), and Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR). To watch the Congresswoman’s remarks on the House floor from July, click here.
01.15.2013	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) joined Rep. Lois Capps (D-CA) today to re-introduce H.R. 225, the National Pediatric Research Network Act. They were joined by a bipartisan group of four colleagues. The National Pediatric Research Network Act (NPRNA), which passed the House with broad, bipartisan support in 2012, would authorize the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to facilitate the creation of pediatric research consortia focused on pediatric diseases, such as spinal muscular atrophy (SMA). The bipartisan bill was designed to help increase research and accelerate the development of clinical trials to treat rare pediatric diseases. “As a mother, I am reminded on a daily basis of the importance of our children’s health – and for that reason, I am proud to join with my friend, Congresswoman Lois Capps, to re-introduce the bipartisan National Pediatric Research Network Act – so we can build upon our nation’s commitment to pediatric medical research,” said Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers. “Too often, research into pediatric disorders has lagged behind research into other medical conditions. The time has come to take pediatric research to the next level, and this bill will do just that. It will give new hope to millions of children – and their families – in this country.” “Too many children—and their families—suffer from diseases that have no cures or even treatments. And despite the great research that has been done to help these children, there is much more we must do to strengthen our pediatric research agenda. That is why I am pleased to re-introduce The National Pediatric Research Network Act with my friend, Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers,” said Congresswoman Lois Capps. “This bill would go a long way to increasing, coordinating, and improving research on children’s illnesses–especially rare and complex diseases–and developing new treatments to fight them. Every parent’s worst fear is that their child becomes sick, and we owe it to every parent in America to do what we can to fight childhood illnesses.” “As parents of a 5-year-old little girl battling spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), the leading genetic killer of young children, we're unbelievably grateful to our very own Congresswoman Lois Capps for her steadfast support of rare pediatric diseases. Research of complex and debilitating diseases, such as SMA, is extremely mature with many programs headed to human clinical trials in the near future. The timing of the re-introduction of the NPRNA couldn't be more critical and its impact could potentially be game changing for children suffering from diseases like SMA,” said Bill Strong, Co-founder, Gwendolyn Strong Foundation. In the 112th Congress, the National Pediatric Research Network Act passed the House of Representatives twice. It was first passed unanimously as a standalone piece of legislation and then again when it was joined with the Prematurity Research Expansion and Education for Mothers Who Deliver Infants Early (PREEMIE) Act, but the House and Senate were unable to come to an agreement on a final bill. ###
01.15.2013	“We Will Fight for Solutions that Stimulate Our Economy, Not Stagnate It” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), House Republican Conference Chair, issued the following statement yesterday in response to President Obama’s press conference regarding an increase in the debt limit. “As we face another debate over whether or not to raise the debt ceiling, one thing is certain: our nation’s debt crisis cannot be solved if Washington does not stop spending beyond its means. Families in Eastern Washington should not face more economic uncertainty just so this government can spend more money. House Republicans remain committed to responsibly lowering the debt burden for every hardworking, middle-class American in Eastern Washington and all across this country. "The national debt threatens the future of our children and grandchildren – and House Republicans will not jeopardize our future because the Democratic majority in Washington wants a blank check for out-of-control spending. The President says he will not negotiate on cutting spending as part of raising the debt ceiling, but he voted against raising the debt ceiling as a United States Senator, saying that to increase the debt ceiling constituted ‘a sign of leadership failure.’ Republicans are prepared to lead and cut the record deficits and debt that we have accumulated over the last four years. We will continue to fight for solutions that will stimulate our economy, not stagnate it.” ###
01.09.2013	“Wonderful News for Fairchild and Eastern Washington; A Tribute to Community’s Leadership & Teamwork” Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) applauded the Air Force’s decision today naming Fairchild Air Force Base as a candidate base to serve as one of the first “main operating bases” (MOB) to host the next-generation KC-46A refueling tankers. This is a huge win for Fairchild, which now moves on to the next round in the competition for these missions. As a next step, the Air Mobility Command will begin conducting site surveys at Fairchild and the other candidate bases. Next year, the Air Force will make its final basing decision for the first MOB. “This is wonderful news for Fairchild and Eastern Washington,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “For over a decade, our community has worked together to make sure that Fairchild is the first home of the new tankers, and today’s decision is the best evidence yet that our hard work continues to pay off. “I am grateful to the Air Force for making the right decision. Since Day One, they have handled this process in a timely, thorough, and diligent manner. Replacing the KC-135s is the number-one priority for the Air Force and the Department of Defense. “I also want to acknowledge the entire Fairchild team for their outstanding service and leadership. Today’s decision is a tribute to their dedication and outstanding work. “We’ve also been blessed by tremendous community support – in the private and public sectors; by federal, state, and local leaders; and by officials in both parties – and there is no question that today’s decision couldn’t have happened without this sense of cooperation and shared pride in Fairchild’s achievements and potential for more achievements in the years ahead. “The important community support that Fairchild established in 1942 when the City of Spokane and local residents donated land for the base is still alive today – with the community continuing to protect its servicemembers via the Joint Land Use Study (JLUS) and the annual Armed Services Torchlight Parade to salute our brave men and women and their families. The community has remained committed to protecting and expanding its mission at Fairchild. And for that, I am extremely proud. “We have a lot to be proud of today. Fairchild’s core strengths in capacity, location and association make it highly competitive for the home of the new tankers. Its strategic location is unmatched, and its state-of-the-art infrastructure is unparalleled. This includes a 14,000-foot runway, a new fitness center, brand new medical facilities and over $400 million in base infrastructure improvements over the last several decades. Fairchild is also one of only five tanker bases with a ‘classic association’ – and the only tanker base with a classic association that is paired with an Air National Guard component. “I am excited by today’s announcement and I look forward to continuing to work with the Air Force, the Fairchild team, and all of our community leaders to ensure that Fairchild is the first home of the KC-46A tankers.” Since coming to Congress in 2005, Rep. McMorris Rodgers has worked to expand and strengthen the role of Fairchild – including making sure the new KC-46A tankers are based there. For the past eight years, she has led an annual meeting between Spokane leaders and high-ranking Pentagon officials in Washington, D.C. to discuss efforts to bolster Fairchild, the largest employer in Eastern Washington. On May 17, 2012, she led a letter with Sen. Patty Murray (D-WA) and Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) to Air Force Secretary Michael B. Donley, urging him to select Fairchild as a home for the KC-46A aerial refueling program. The letter was signed by the entire Washington state Congressional delegation. “Fairchild Air Force Base has been a historic part of our nation’s aerial refueling effort and is well positioned to achieve global-level reach, especially to the emerging Asia-Pacific theater,” the delegation wrote in the letter. “The base is a strategic staging platform, supporting the rapid worldwide global mobility mission with access to a number of aerial refueling routes while minimizing transit fuel consumption. We believe the recently announced strategic basing criterion situates Fairchild Air Force Base in a very competitive position.” The KC-46A is intended to replace the U.S. Air Force’s aging fleet of KC-135 Stratotankers which has been the primary refueling aircraft for more than 50 years. With more refueling capacity and enhanced capabilities, improved efficiency and increased capabilities for cargo and aeromedical evacuation, the KC-46A will provide aerial refueling support to the Air Force, Navy, Marine Corps as well as allied nation coalition force aircraft. To learn more about Rep. McMorris Rodgers’ work for Fairchild AFB, click here. ###
12.19.2012	“It Will Give New Hope to Millions of Children" Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Chair of the House Republican Conference, applauded the passage of the Prematurity Research Expansion and Education for Mothers Who Deliver Infants Early (PREEMIE)Act today, which includes her legislation, the National Pediatric Research Network Act. This bipartisan bill, which she introduced in July with Rep. Lois Capps (D-CA), will advance research for a variety of pediatric conditions such as Down syndrome and spinal muscular atrophy. “As a mother, I am reminded on a daily basis of the importance of our children’s health – and for that reason, I am proud the House has passed the PREEMIE Act – and the National Pediatric Research Network Act – so we can build upon our nation’s commitment to pediatric medical research,” said Chair McMorris Rodgers. “Too often, research into pediatric disorders has lagged behind research into other medical conditions. The time has come to take pediatric research to the next level, and this bill will do just that. It will give new hope to millions of children – and their families – in this country.” The PREEMIE Act authorizes research to prevent pre-term births and requires the Secretary of Health and Human Services to coordinate this effort. Additionally, it authorizes the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to establish up to eight pediatric research networks throughout the nation. Each network will be selected by NIH through a competitive review process. These pediatric networks will work in a collaborative manner to improve health outcomes for children who suffer from spinal muscular atrophy, Down syndrome, and Fragile X. The National Pediatric Research Network Actis supported by the Children’s Hospital Association, the Federation of Pediatric Organizations, Parent Project Muscular Dystrophy, the National Down Syndrome Society, Fight SMA, and various other groups. To watch Chair McMorris Rodgers’s remarks on the National Pediatric Research Network Act from September, click here. ###
12.12.2012	“Our Children Deserve an America Where They Are Not Burdened by Debt, but Emboldened by Opportunity” WASHINGTON, DC– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Chair of the House Republican Conference, led a press conference today to highlight the effect the national debt will have on America’s children and middle-class families. As the debate over the fiscal cliff continues, House Republicans are committed to reducing the debt, averting the fiscal cliff, and protecting the next generation of Americans from the detrimental effects of out-of-control spending. “House Republicans are fighting to ensure that our children grow up in an America where they are not burdened by debt, but emboldened by opportunity – where their opportunities are limitless, not limited,” said Chair McMorris Rodgers. “When my daughter Grace was born two years ago, her share of the national debt was $45,000. And if the trend continues, by the time she’s in high school that will have grown to $100,000. That is both unacceptable and unsustainable.” As the fiscal cliff looms, Republican leaders are eager to negotiate with the President to agree upon a balanced approach that addresses both revenue and spending. On December 3, House Republican leaders sent President Obama a letter detailing their counterproposal, which includes $800 billion in revenue through tax reform and significant spending cuts – for a total net savings of $2.2 trillion. “It’s time for the President to come to the table and work with us to avert the fiscal cliff before the end of the year. This is about people, not politics—about protecting America’s future, not repeating the mistakes of the past. Now is our moment to do something big.” To watch Chair McMorris Rodgers’s remarks, click here. McMorris Rodgers was joined by several other House Republican Members of Congress, including Reps Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL), Sean Duff (R-WI), Renee Ellmers (R-NC), Virginia Foxx (R-NC), Lynn Jenkins (R-KS), Kristi Noem (R-SD), Tom Reed (R-NY), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL), Jean Schmidt (R-OH) and Todd Young (R-IN). ###
11.19.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Chairman of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today in response to the escalating violence and deadly terrorist attacks in Israel: “The recent terrorist rocket attacks by Hamas into Israel have killed innocent civilians and must not be tolerated. These deplorable, cowardly atrocities have no possible justification and should be condemned by all Americans. We would not tolerate one rocket launched against our homeland, much less the 800 rocket attacks on Israel in 2012, with over 500 this past week alone. “Recently, air raid sirens blared in Tel Aviv and Jerusalem, sending one million Israelis to huddle in bomb shelters. I have visited Israel and been to the areas targeted by the terrorists. My heart goes out to the brave families who live there, and I send my condolences to the families of those who have been killed. “America must continue to stand firmly with Israel, our friend and closest ally in the region. I will continue to fight for them, support them, and defend them.” ###
11.15.2012	Washington, D.C.– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) was elected by her House Republican colleagues today to serve as Conference Chairman, the fourth-highest-ranking position among House Republicans. “I want to thank my colleagues for showing their trust and confidence in me and what we can do together as a Conference to advance positive, constructive solutions for the American people,” said Chairman McMorris Rodgers. “We are united by our conservative principles, a spirit of reform to return America to prosperity, and a recognition that we must do better as a Conference to deliver our message to every corner of America to build a long-term Republican Majority in Congress. I look forward to working with Speaker Boehner, Leader Cantor, Whip McCarthy, and the rest of the new Leadership team to get results for the American people and to keep the American Dream alive for generations to come.” Chairman McMorris Rodgers was first elected to Congress in 2004 and served as Vice Chairman for the past four years. She was Gov. Romney’s House Liaison during the presidential campaign and served as the official host of the 2012 Republican National Convention. As Conference Chair, she will be the highest-ranking Republican woman in Congress and the highest-ranking pro-life woman in Congressional history.
11.12.2012	Spokane, WA – In honor of Veterans Day, a statement by Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus, was read at the annual Veterans Day event at Spokane Veterans Memorial Arena. “On November 11, 1918, after four years of brutal conflict, the guns of the First World War finally fell silent. In America, we marked the occasion as Armistice Day, a celebration of peace. Today, we mark November 11 as Veterans Day, and with solemn pride we pay tribute to those brave men and women who have served our nation in uniform. “We also take this opportunity to honor the enduring service of our active soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines, and Coast Guardsmen. Whether during peacetime or war, at home or abroad, their service has been characterized by selflessness and love of country. Throughout history, America’s veterans and service members have answered the call of duty, and they have served with dignity and honor. “As these men and women have sacrificed, so too have their families. For each displaced service member, there is often a husband or wife left behind. These quiet patriots have kissed their spouse goodbye and sent them off to duty – often in harm’s way – without the assurance their loved one will ever return. They diligently run their household while their mate serves at a stateside base or fights on a foreign battlefield. Whatever accolades we bestow upon our veterans, we must also remember the sacrifice of their families. “On this Veterans Day, let us pledge to our heroes that we will recognize and appreciate them not just today, but every day. We owe them so much, and we must never forget them.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers’ husband, Brian, is a veteran who served 26 years as a Navy commander. To learn more about her work for veterans and military families, click here.
11.02.2012	Colfax, WA – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today after the Labor Department announced that the national unemployment rate rose last month to 7.9 percent: “The national unemployment rate is higher today than when President Obama took office, even though he’s added over $5 trillion to the national debt. Whether it’s the ‘stimulus,’ the health care reform law, or the threat of a record tax increase, the President’s Big Government policies have clearly failed. We need a new approach – one that unleashes the power of free enterprise and tames the growth of government. “The House has been doing its job, passing over 40 jobs bills, but the Senate refuses even to consider most of them. The Senate hasn’t even passed a budget in more than 1,000 days. That’s because they’re more interested in protecting the President than listening to our job creators, who understand first-hand how the Administration’s policies have hurt our economy. The President should take a cue from Ronald Reagan who inherited an even deeper recession but then rejuvenated the economy by working with Congress on a pro-growth, free-market agenda. “I urge the President and the Senate to take today’s report to heart and work with the House on a new approach, one rooted in common sense, bipartisanship, and putting people first, not government.” To learn more about Rep. McMorris Rodgers’ work on jobs, click here.
10.25.2012	Spokane, WA- Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) delivered the keynote speech at the Society of American Foresters National Convention in Spokane today. The Congresswoman spoke about her work to improve federal land management policies and issues specific to the Colville National Forest. “Our federal forests are sick and the communities that depend on them have struggled for decades due to inaction,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “When I look at our national forests – 200 million acres across the country – and learn that one out of three acres is bug infested, diseased, or dead, I find that unacceptable. In addition, it is no coincidence that many of the counties with the highest unemployment rates in the country are those which are surrounded by federal forests. By removing lands from private ownership – and thus, from the local municipal tax rolls – the government stifles locally-driven development and makes rural communities more dependent on Washington, DC. With job creation, economic growth, and federalism now more important than ever, it is imperative that Congress and the federal agencies undertake a comprehensive review of their land ownership policies.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers cited the Colville National Forest (CNF) as a model to set our forests and our rural communities on a better course. The Congresswoman acknowledged the excellent work by the Northwest Washington Forestry Coalition (NWFC), a coalition of local stakeholders that has brought warring sides together to identify and implement forest management solutions. Rep. McMorris Rodgers has advocated on behalf of the NWFC for years. In February 2012, the U.S. Forest Service recognized the CNF by providing $968,000 in funding for the CNF’s restoration efforts. The Congresswoman also championed several pieces of legislation to improve federal land management policies, including… H.R. 4019, the Federal Forest County Revenue, Schools and Jobs Act,which would reform the Secure Rural Schools program. HR 2541, the Silviculture Regulatory Consistency Act,which would protect forest jobs by reversing the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals’ misguided ruling that forest stormwater runoff produced during logging must be regulated by the Clean Water Act, overturning 35 years of federal environmental policy. H.R. 758, The National Monument Designation Transparency and Accountability Act, which would require the President to receive approval from Congress before designating a national monument. H.R. 1581, the Wilderness and Roadless Area Release Act,which would release public lands that have already been identified by the Bureau of Land Management as not suitable for wilderness from further study for wilderness designation. “Even when America’s economy was booming, many federal policies on the use of our resources were counterproductive. But today, with so much economic suffering, they’re devastating. We do not need more Big Government, one-size-fits-all, ‘my way or the highway’ policies. The time has come to put our peopleback to work, which means putting our landback to work.” The Society of American Foresters is the largest professional society for foresters in the world. To learn more, click here.
10.15.2012	Washington, D.C. –Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) was honored by the Washington Farm Bureau (WFB) with their 2012 Friend of Farm Bureau Award, her office announced today. The WFB is the state’s largest general farm organization, representing the economic and social interests of more than 41,000 member families. The award is presented to members of the state’s Congressional delegation who achieved an 80 percent or greater vote on significant legislation identified by the WFB. “As someone who grew up on a farm in Eastern Washington, and with agriculture being our number one industry, I am honored to accept the 2012 Friend of Farm Bureau Award,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “I am proud to work with the Washington Farm Bureau on shared priorities, including expanding trade markets, reducing energy prices, stopping burdensome regulations, and passing a new farm bill. I will continue to fight every day for Eastern Washington’s farmers and ranchers and our entire community.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers was a conferee on the 2007 farm bill and she is a vocal advocate for a new farm bill. She is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, which covers many issues that affect Eastern Washington’s ag industry, including oversight over the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). She helped lead the fight against the EPA’s dust particulate regulations, which would have been devastating to our farmers and ranchers. She is also a strong champion of the Agriculture Research Service. To learn more about Rep. McMorris Rodgers’ work for Eastern Washington’s ag community, click here.
10.10.2012	Spokane, WA – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) was recognized today with the “Standing Up for America’s Seniors Award” from Retire Safe, a national grassroots organization made up of more than 40,000 seniors nationwide. The award recognizes Members of Congress who stand up for seniors by guarding their rights, protecting their benefits and improving their lives. “It is a privilege and an honor to receive this award because it represents something about which I care very deeply: the protection of America’s seniors,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “There’s been a lot of debate in Washington recently about Medicare, Social Security and the future of other entitlement programs. And I will continue to work every day as your representative in Congress to save those programs, protect our seniors, and ensure their access to quality and affordable health care. I will work to promote their economic choices and enhance their personal freedoms.” Retire Safe believes that the opportunity to retire safely is contingent on three different securities: health security, financial security and personal security. They recognized Rep. McMorris Rodgers for her excellence in all three. This includes the protection of the doctor/patient relationship, access to safe and affordable medicines, the protection of the Social Security Trust Fund, support for America’s armed forces and veterans, the opposition to government encroachment on health care choices, and more. Rep. McMorris Rodgers is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Health Subcommittee and has been an outspoken opponent of ObamaCare. Her most recent op-ed, “ObamaCare’s Broken Promises,” can be read in The Examiner here. ###
10.02.2012	Spokane, WA –Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), a member of the House Health Subcommittee, was honored by the American Hospital Association (AHA) and the Washington State Hospital Association (WSHA) with their Health Care Champion Award today. The Congresswoman received the award for her outstanding contributions to health care policy. She was presented with the award at a meeting of Eastern Washington hospital leaders at St. Luke’s Rehabilitation Institute. “This award represents something I care very deeply about: ensuring that America remains the number-one provider of health care in the world,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “As a member of the House Health Subcommittee, I fight every day in Congress to advance common-sense, bipartisan health care solutions, including FDA reform, repealing the medical device tax, promoting primary care doctor training, and expanding rural health care access. Together, I know we are capable of achieving great things, and I look forward to achieving them together in the months and years ahead.” “This award is a reflection of Rep. McMorris Rodgers’ work on critical issues for hospitals and the patients they serve,” said Rich Umbdenstock, AHA President and CEO. “Rep. McMorris Rodgers understands the important role hospitals play in their community.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers is a strong advocate for rural health care. In the 112th Congress, she introduced the Rural Hospital and Provider Equity Act, which would ensure that rural communities are fairly represented in the government’s health care policies. She also introduced the 340B Improvement Act, which would expand the 340B drug rebate program that provides discounted prices to some facilities that care for uninsured and low-income patients. “Rep. McMorris Rodgers is truly a champion for health care, especially for rural areas,” said Scott Bond, President of the WSHA. “Her work has been crucial to sustaining access to resources for people across our state. We are lucky to have her as a member of our congressional delegation.” The American Hospital Association is a not-for-profit association of health care provider organizations and individuals that are committed improving health care in their communities. The AHA is the national advocate for its members, which consist of almost 5,000 hospitals, health care systems, networks and other providers of care and 42,000 individual members. The WSHA represents all of Washington’s 98 community hospitals. To learn more about Rep. McMorris Rodgers’ work on health care, click here.
10.02.2012	Spokane, WA– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) participated in the ribbon cutting of the Parksmith Interchange of the North South Freeway in Spokane, Washington today. She joined other business and community leaders – in addition to many prominent transportation stakeholders – to celebrate the completion of this phase of the project. “This celebration represents so much. It is a celebration of innovation, expansion and advancement. It is a celebration that has been decades in the making – and one that represents the great partnership between the federal and state governments,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “The North South Freeway is an effective multimodal transportation system that will ultimately connect trade routes throughout all of Eastern Washington. Its potential is endless and its benefits are innumerable.” The completion of the Parksmith Interchange of the North South Freeway was a result of a $35 million Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) I grant from the U.S. Department of Transportation. The North South Freeway was the first project in the nation to be awarded two TIGER grants – and its completion represents the strong collaboration between the federal government and Washington State. Upon its ultimate completion, the North South Freeway will be a 60-mile per hour, 10.5 mile-long limited access facility. Its benefits include: reduced travel time by nearly two million hours each year, improved air quality for the Spokane metropolitan community, and lower gasoline usage by approximately 1.7 million gallons annually. “I’m proud that this is one of the few projects in the country that has been – and continues to be – truly ‘shovel-ready.’ At a time when the national unemployment rate hovers above 8 percent, the North South Freeway is creating jobs here in Spokane. I will continue to work with the Department of Transportation to secure funding for the Freeway and see this project to completion.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers has met with U.S. Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood twice to ensure that Washington remained a top priority for transportation funding. In April, she joined Senators Maria Cantwell and Patty Murray in a letter urging Secretary LaHood to consider the WSDOT’s TIGER IV application for the next phase of the North South Freeway. Participants in today’s ribbon cutting included: Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA), Spokane Mayor David Condon, WSDOT Regional Administration Keith Metcalf, WSDOT Secretary Paula Hammond, Washington House Transportation Committee Vice Chair Andy Billig, Spokane County Commission Chair Todd Mielke, Greater Spokane Incorporated President and CEO Rich Hadley, and Federal Highway Administration Division Administrator Dan Mathis. ###
09.20.2012	Washington, DC – With the Senate scheduled to go out of session tomorrow, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, highlighted the Senate’s failures and the House’s achievements during today’s House Republican Leadership press conference. With the Senate’s adjournment, a host of critical issues – from extending the current tax rates to passing a budget to passing pro-growth legislation – will move to the “lame-duck” session of Congress after the election, fueling more uncertainty among America’s job creators and holding back America’s economic recovery. A transcript of her remarks is below. To watch the video, click here. “Speaker Boehner often asks the question, ‘Where are the jobs?’ To answer that question, we may need to ask another question, which is ‘Where is the Senate?’ “We’re approaching the end of this Congress – the 112th Congress – and there’s one body that’s passed a budget. That’s us, in the House. “There’s one body that’s taken action on dozens of jobs bills. “There’s one body that’s extended the current tax rates. “There’s one body that’s taken action to protect our national security. “So we ask, ‘Where is the Senate?’ And where is the leadership? “President Obama has the worst jobs record of any President since Hoover. He’s added more to our debt than any President in history. “The House has acted during the 112th Congress. We have taken action. We have been responsible. We have been putting forward our solutions. “Unfortunately, the Senate has backed up the President. They’ve protected the President. And so many of these decisions now are going to be delayed until the ‘lame-duck’ session. “And we’re going to be ready. We’re going to be ready with constructive, positive solutions. We’re going to be ready with the solutions that get Americans back to work, get our economy growing, address the debt, and make sure the American Dream stays alive for the next generation.”
09.20.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and Rep. Lois Capps (D-CA) applauded House passage of their bill, HR 6163, the National Pediatric Research Network Act (NPRNA), last night. The NPRNA would advance research for a variety of pediatric disorders such as Down syndrome and spinal muscular atrophy (SMA). “As the mom of a child with special needs, I am thrilled the House has passed our bill to increase pediatric disorder research and the quality of that research,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Too often, research into pediatric disorders has lagged behind research into other medical conditions. The time has come to take pediatric research to the next level. Our bill will do that by creating research networks focused on pediatric diseases, giving new hope to the millions who suffer from those conditions and their families. I want to thank my House colleagues – especially Rep. Capps and Chairman Upton – and all of our friends in the disabilities community for working to get our bill passed through the House. We hope the Senate will join us and take action soon.” “While partisanship may dominate the headlines, House passage of the National Pediatric Research Network Act is a great example of how we can get things done, and work together to improve children’s health,” said Rep. Capps. “The bill would go a long way to increasing and improving research on children’s illnesses – especially rare and complex diseases – and developing new treatments to fight them. Every parent’s worst fear is that their child becomes sick, and we owe it to every parent in America to do what we can to fight childhood illnesses. I am hopeful that our bill can be signed into law by the President before the end of the year.” The National Institutes of Health (NIH) uses only about 5 percent of its extramural funds on pediatric research. The NPRNA would authorize NIH to establish up to 20 pediatric research networks throughout the nation. A portion of the networks would focus on rare and genetic diseases, such as SMA, muscular dystrophy, Down syndrome, and Fragile X, which are often difficult to study because of their infrequent occurrence in the population. The NPRNA is supported by the Children’s Hospital Association, the Federation of Pediatric Organizations, Parent Project Muscular Dystrophy, the National Down Syndrome Society, Fight SMA, and other groups. Rep. McMorris Rodgers championed the NPRNA in a House floor speech last night. To watch her speech, click here. The Congresswoman is a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and Co-Chair of the Congressional Disabilities Caucus. To learn more about her work for the disabilities community, click here.
09.13.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, was honored today by the National Federation of Independent Businesses (NFIB) with their Guardian of Small Business Award. The Congresswoman received the award for supporting policies that will help small businesses grow and create jobs. “I am proud to accept the NFIB’s Guardian of Small Business Award,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “The NFIB is the leading voice for America’s small businesses, and I’ve enjoyed working with them on shared priorities, including tax certainty, common-sense health care reform, increasing domestic energy production, and protecting freedom in the workplace.” In the 112th Congress, Guardian awards are given to Senators and Members of Congress who voted to support job growth on at least 70 percent of 13 key issues. Rep. McMorris Rodgers voted for job growth on all 13 issues, earning a 100 percent rating. “The record shows that Rep. McMorris Rodgers is a true champion of small business, having stood strong on the key small-business votes in the 112th Congress,” said NFIB President and CEO Dan Danner. “This award reflects our members’ appreciation for supporting the NFIB pro-growth agenda for small business.” Seventy percent of new jobs in America are created by small businesses. With about 350,000 members, NFIB is America’s leading small business association.
09.11.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and Rep. Lois Capps (D-CA), members of the House Health Subcommittee, applauded the Subcommittee’s passage of their bill, HR 6163, the National Pediatric Research Network Act (NPRNA), today. The NPRNA would advance research for a variety of rare pediatric disorders such as Down syndrome and spinal muscular atrophy (SMA). “As the mom of a child with special needs, I know that research on pediatric diseases has often lagged behind research on other medical conditions,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “For example, while children represent 20 percent of the U.S. population, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) uses only 5 percent of its extramural funds on pediatric research. The time has come to take pediatric research to the next level, and the best way to do that is to enhance collaboration and the sharing of knowledge among medical researchers. Our bill will incentivize this positive approach by creating a research consortia focused on pediatric diseases, giving new hope to the millions who suffer from them and their families. I look forward to continuing to work with Rep. Capps, our Subcommittee colleagues, and the disabilities community to get this bill passed through Congress and signed into law.” “I’m very pleased that legislation I’ve co-authored with my colleague Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers has been approved by the Health Subcommittee and is advancing in the legislative process,” said Rep. Capps. “Today’s markup is a great example of how we can work together to advance public health. The bipartisan National Pediatric Research Network Act would go a long way to increasing and improving research on children’s illnesses – especially rare and complex diseases – and developing new treatments to fight them. Every parent’s worst fear is that their child becomes sick, and we owe it to all parents to do what we can to fight childhood illnesses.” The NPRNA would authorize NIH to establish up to 20 pediatric research consortia throughout the nation. A portion of the consortia would focus on rare and genetic diseases, such as SMA, muscular dystrophy, Down syndrome, and Fragile X, which are often difficult to study because of their infrequent occurrence in the population. The NPRNA is supported by the Children’s Hospital Association, the Federation of Pediatric Organizations, Parent Project Muscular Dystrophy, the National Down Syndrome Society, Fight SMA, and other groups. The bill now moves to the full Energy and Commerce Committee. Rep. McMorris Rodgers is Co-Chair of the Congressional Disabilities Caucus. To learn more about her work on disabilities, click here.
09.11.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today to mark the eleven-year anniversary of the September 11th terrorist attacks: “Eleven years ago, our country was forever changed by the attacks on the World Trade Center, the Pentagon, and Flight 93. Today, we remember the thousands of victims who lost their lives and honor the heroes who selflessly worked to save those inside. We should never forget the courage, bravery and compassion of the human spirit that was exhibited that day. “More than a decade later, we still stand firm in our resolve to fight the War on Terror and eliminate terrorist groups around the world. Our top priority must continue to be protecting the security and freedom of our country and citizens. “I want to thank the men and women who serve in our military, especially those stationed at Fairchild Air Force Base. They continue to play a valuable role in our nation’s fight against terror and are helping to keep us safe. “It is also important to honor our community’s first responders – our police, firefighters, and paramedics. They risk their lives daily to keep us safe and we must never forget to show them how grateful we are for their work and sacrifice.”
09.07.2012	“It’s Time for the President to Move This Economy Forward to Prosperity – Not Backward to Decline” Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today after the U.S. Labor Department announced its August jobs report, revealing that a total of only 96,000 jobs were created and the unemployment rate still remains above 8 percent: “Just hours after President Obama made his case for reelection, today’s jobs report only highlights his continued failure to grow our economy and put Americans back to work. Economists had predicted a growth of approximately 125,000 jobs this past month, yet reality is far different. Nearly 370,000 Americans have given up on the American dream and left the workforce, while the unemployment rate remains above 8 percent for the forty-third consecutive month since President Obama took office. This is both unacceptable and unsustainable. “It has become abundantly clear that the President’s policies have not only failed to grow the economy; they have actually made things worse. The numbers are clear: only 63 percent of Americans are even participating in the work force, the lowest since 1981. The President’s economic ‘stimulus’ has done nothing to stimulate. His ‘Big Government’ policies have made it harder for Americans to find jobs. They have made it harder for job creators to hire, for businesses to expand, for entrepreneurs to innovate. “While the President continues to make the false claim that his policies have worked, House Republicans have passed 36 pro-growth jobs bills to help the American people get back to work. And yet the Senate and the President have done nothing with them. It’s time to advance economic growth, not stymie it. It’s time to make it easier for Americans to find jobs – not harder. And it’s time for the President to do what he promised and start moving this economy forward to prosperity – not backward to decline. I am confident we can do better than this.” ###
08.24.2012	Spokane, WA – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) hosted a successful town hall meeting in Spokane tonight. The public forum – which was attended by about 200 people from the Spokane area – fostered an important exchange of ideas on critical issues, including jobs, government spending, and health care. “Looking back on my life, I truly believe that I’ve lived the American Dream,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “And that’s why I’ve always seen my number one goal in public life as preserving that dream for our children and grandchildren. To keep the American Dream alive, I’ve opposed the Big Government policies that have failed, while advocating for the free-market solutions that will work. “As your voice in Congress, I’ve fought for pro-growth policies to create jobs, common sense health care reform, an ‘all-of-the-above’ energy strategy, better stewardship of our farms and forests, and keeping our promises to our service members, veterans and their families. “I’ve also led the charge on issues that uniquely affect Eastern Washington – working in a bipartisan way to bring the new tankers to Fairchild Air Force Base, securing funding to complete the North-South Freeway, protecting rural health care, and expanding hydropower.” During this session of Congress, Rep. McMorris Rodgers voted to extend the current tax rates for all Americans, repeal the government takeover of health care, pass the Balanced Budget Amendment, and approve the Keystone Pipeline. She is the author of the Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act, which passed the House, and the Keeping America Competitive through Harmonization Act, which was signed into law. Rep. McMorris Rodgers’ other public events this month were in Newport, Republic, Dayton, and Walla Walla.
08.20.2012	Fairchild AFB, WA – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus (CMFC), hosted a Military Spouse Roundtable at Fairchild Air Force Base today. The event brought together more than 20 spouses of Fairchild’s Active Duty and Guard members. Their conversation focused on how to better assist military spouses and families in the following areas – employment, education, health care, and housing. “When a service member joins the military, it’s not just a job; it’s a family commitment to our country,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers, whose husband, Brian, is a retired Naval pilot. “America’s military spouses have needs that are not being met, but with your input here today, we can better understand those needs and better address them.” After the roundtable, Rep. McMorris Rodgers toured the Survival, Evasion, Resistance, and Escape (SERE) School at Fairchild. The SERE School is where the Air Force teaches its aircrews and other designated personnel to evade capture and survive under any circumstances. In 2009, Rep. McMorris Rodgers and Rep. Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (D-GA) co-founded the Congressional Military Family Caucus, which today has over 80 Members. In 2011, they co-hosted the Caucus’ first event outside Washington, D.C. at Fairchild AFB. To learn more about the Congresswoman’s work for Fairchild and military families, click here.
08.01.2012	Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, voted for legislation today that would extend the current tax rates for one year, stopping a record $4.5 trillion tax hike scheduled to take effect on January 1, 2013. “At a time when America is suffering through the worst economy since the Great Depression, I couldn’t think of a worse idea than raising taxes on any American,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “President Obama’s plan to raise taxes is a job killer, and House Republicans are determined to stop it. The bill we passed today will extend the current tax rates for all Americans, providing much-needed tax certainty. By removing the threat of ‘taxmageddon,’ our bill will bolster America’s economy and create jobs.” According to the Joint Committee on Taxation, the President’s tax plan will hit almost one million small businesses and 53 percent of all small business income. According to Ernst & Young, it will destroy over 700,000 jobs nationwide, including 15,000 in Washington State. Today’s legislation – H.R. 8, the Job Protection and recession Prevention Act of 2012 – extends several key tax provisions: • Continues the marriage penalty relief • Maintains the currentchild credit • Maintains a 15% dividend and capital gains rate • Maintains the current estate tax and prevents a 20% increase • Sets higher small business expensing limits • Provides a 2-year Alternative Minimum Tax patch Tomorrow, the House will consider H.R. 6169, the Pathway to Job Creation through a Simpler, Fairer Tax Code Act of 2012, which would require the House and Senate to consider legislation containing the following principles for tax reform, included in the last two House-passed budgets: · (1) Consolidation of the current individual income tax brackets into not more than two brackets and a top rate of not more than 25 percent · (2) Reduction in the corporate tax rate to not more than 25 percent · (3) Repeal of the Alternative Minimum Tax · (4) Broadening of the tax base to maintain revenue between 18 and 19 percent of the economy · (5) Change from a ‘‘worldwide’’ to a ‘‘territorial’’ system of taxation Coupled together, H.R. 8 and H.R. 6169 will ensure that individual tax rates will not increase while comprehensive, pro-growth tax reform is crafter under expedited procedures in 2013.
07.27.2012	Spokane, WA – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) participated in a tax policy roundtable at Greater Spokane Incorporated today, in which she argued that Congress and the White House must work together to stop a $4.5 trillion tax hike scheduled to go into effect on January 1, 2013. “At a time when America is suffering through the slowest economic recovery since the Great Depression, I couldn’t think of a worse idea than raising taxes on any American,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “President Obama’s plan to raise taxes is a job killer and House Republicans are united in our determination to stop this record tax hike from taking effect. Next week, we will consider legislation that would extend the current tax rates for all Americans. The American people are already over-taxed, and forcing them to fork over more of their money to the government, instead of keeping it so they can save, spend, or invest it, is a recipe for a double-dip recession.” According to the Joint Committee on Taxation, the President’s tax plan will hit almost one million businesses. According to Ernst & Young, it will destroy over 700,000 jobs nationwide. Fifteen thousand will be in Washington State.
07.26.2012	Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, voted for H.R. 4078, the Red Tape Reduction and Small Business Job Creation Act, today. This legislation – which passed the House – would impose a moratorium on non-health and emergency-related federal regulations until national unemployment drops below 6 percent. The bill also includes measures to curtail so-called “midnight regulations” and to highlight the prevalence of “sue and settle” agreements. “I’m proud to join my colleagues in voting for legislation that focuses on the true ‘builders’ of our economy,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “And while President Obama thinks that means the government, House Republicans know that means our small businesses. That’s why we’ve passed legislation that would reduce costly rules and regulations on America’s small business owners. Right now, there are over 4,000 federal regulations in the pipeline, which, if implemented, would cost over $500 billion. If those rules take effect, it would have a devastating impact on jobs because every dollar that a business has to spend complying with regulations is a dollar they could be spending to create more jobs. “At a time of near-record unemployment, we need to empower America’s job creators to focus on what they do best – creating jobs – instead of forcing them to file more paperwork. The bill we approved today will do exactly that.”
07.25.2012	Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, was recognized today with the “2012 Best of Congress Award” by Corporate Voices for Working Families and Working Mother Media. Only 30 Members of Congress – from both sides of the aisle – were celebrated for their outstanding leadership in improving the quality of life for working families. “As a wife and a mom with two young children, I know first-hand the importance of being able to balance a demanding job with a family – and ever since I’ve been in Congress, it’s been my goal to provide that opportunity to families all across this country,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “I’m honored to join such a distinguished group of lawmakers in accepting this year’s ‘Best of Congress Award.’ It represents what I think is the most important part of my job in Congress: to improve the lives of America’s families.” “These Members of Congress stand as role models for what can be accomplished through a combination of legislation and a personal commitment to policies that benefit working families. Through their actions, they are improving the quality of life for working parents nationwide,” said former Congresswoman Patricia Schroeder (D-CO), a 2012 Best of Congress Steering Committee member. Recipients of the 2012 Best of Congress Award are: U.S. Senate o Michael Bennet (CO) o Sherrod Brown (OH) o Robert Casey (PA) o Mike Crapo (ID) o Kirsten Gillibrand (NY) o Kay Bailey Hutchison (TX) o Herbert Kohl (WI) o Patty Murray (WA) U.S. House of Representatives o Tammy Baldwin (WI-2) o Russ Carnahan (MO-3) o Susan Davis (CA-53) o Rosa DeLauro (CT-3) o Jeff Denham (CA-19) o Chaka Fattah (PA-2) o Raul Grijalva (AZ-7) o Carolyn Maloney (NY-25) o Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-5) o Kristi Noem (SD-1) o Erik Paulsen (MN-3) o Ed Perlmutter (CO-7) o Dave Reichert (WA-8) o Peter Roskam (IL-6) o C.A. Dutch Ruppersberger (MD-2) o Linda Sanchez (CA-39) o Allyson Schwartz (PA-13) o Adam Smith (WA-9) o Pete Stark (CA-15) o Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-20) o Lynn Woolsey (CA-6) o John Yarmuth (KY-3) This year’s applicants were judged on several important criteria: Their voting record, sponsorship of legislation, constituent casework, and other activities that demonstrate their commitment to improving the lives of working families. They also were asked to submit employment policies and practices within their own offices that support working parents and flexible workplace options. Applications were reviewed by a bipartisan steering committee co-chaired by Arianna Huffington, President and Editor?in?Chief of The Huffington Post Media Group and the Honorable Jane Swift, CEO of Middlebury Interactive Languages and former Governor of Massachusetts. Other steering committee members are the Honorable Pat Schroeder, former Congresswoman from Colorado and former president and CEO of the Association of American Publishers; Ted Childs, Founder and Principal of Ted Childs, LLC; and Patricia Kempthorne, President of the Twiga Foundation.
07.24.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) released the following statement today after Gov. Chris Gregoire (D-WA) announced the appointment of Brigadier General Bret D. Daugherty as Adjutant General of the State of Washington, replacing Major General Timothy Lowenberg, who is retiring: “I look forward to working with Gen. Daugherty to bolster Washington’s military capabilities – especially Fairchild Air Force Base – and supporting those who bravely wear the uniform of our great nation. “I’ve enjoyed working with Gen. Lowenberg, and like all Washingtonians and all Americans, I thank him for his service and wish him well in his retirement.” As state Adjutant General, Gen. Daugherty assumes leadership of the Washington Army and Air National Guard as well as the state’s Emergency Management agency. He also becomes the state’s liaison to the federal Homeland Security Department. Gen. Lowenberg – who served as state Adjutant General for the past 13 years – announced his retirement on Friday after 44 years of military service.
07.18.2012	“Such Massive Cuts to Our Military Put Our National Security and Global Economy in Great Peril” Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, applauded the passage of H.R. 5872, the SequestrationTransparency Act of 2012 in the House today. The legislation – which passed unanimously out of the House Budget Committee – requires the President to submit a report to Congress detailing the Administration’s plan to implement the budget sequestration cuts required to take effect in January 2013. “As a representative of one of the largest air force bases in the country, Fairchild Air Force Base, I am proud that the House passed this important legislation and I am eager to expedite its implementation,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “In the upcoming months, we face unprecedented cuts to national security – most notably a 20 percent reduction in Department of Defense funding over the next ten years. Such massive cuts to our military put our national security and global economy in great peril. And I refuse to stand by and allow the process to proceed without greater transparency, efficiency and accountability.” The need for the Sequestration Transparency Act arises from the failure of the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction to approve a $1.2 trillion deficit reduction target in November 2011. Consequently, a sequestration of that amount is scheduled to begin on January 2, 2013, which would include an additional $492 billion in cuts to the defense budget on top of the $487 billion already being implemented. The ramifications to soldiers, veterans, the economy and national security would be devastating. “Service members and their families at Fairchild – and at bases all across this country – have a right to know how they will be affected by the sequester. At a time when national security is paramount, they cannot afford to face more risk, more job loss, and more uncertainty.” ###
07.12.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) applauded the House Agriculture Committee for passing a new farm bill last night in a bipartisan vote. The legislation – which is a high priority for Eastern Washington’s agricultural community – now moves to the House floor. “Eastern Washington’s farmers and ranchers deserve the certainty of a new five-year farm bill, and I appreciate Chairman Lucas and the rest of the Committee for passing a solid bill that maintains our commitment to rural America while improving the efficiency of many programs,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “I’ve been a strong advocate for getting a new farm bill signed into law this year, and I will continue working with my House colleagues to make that goal a reality. With yesterday’s important milestone, I am more confident than ever that it will get done, which will be a great victory for Eastern Washington’s largest industry.” Agriculture has a $16 billion annual total economic impact in Washington State. Family wheat farms are one of the largest economic drivers of jobs in Eastern Washington, generating nearly $925 million in production value to the State’s economy. The Agriculture Committee passed farm bill saves more than $35 billion in mandatory spending while reauthorizing critical research, conservation, and food security programs that directly impact Eastern Washington’s growers, ranchers, and farmers. For more information about the House farm bill, click here.
07.11.2012	Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, voted in favor of legislation today that would repeal the health care reform law of 2010. She spoke on the House floor today explaining her vote. A transcript of her remarks is below. To watch the video, click here. “I rise in strong support of this legislation today to repeal ObamaCare because the control of health care and health care decisions belong in the hands of patients and families and their doctors. “ObamaCare was a Big Government takeover of one of the most personal aspects of our lives. “I come to this debate as a mom and as a wife. I have two children – one that was born with special needs – and I understand first-hand talking to so many within the disabilities community, and I hear their fear of not being able to find the doctors, not being able to find the therapists, within the Medicaid programs or within TRICARE because these are government programs that are too often making false promises. “I think about my parents who are signing up for Medicare, and over $500 billion in cuts to the Medicare program and in Eastern Washington, it is very difficult to find a doctor right now who will take a new Medicare patient. Because of Obamacare, my family, like millions all across this country, are facing longer lines, fewer doctors, and lower quality of care. We can and we must do better. “If we don’t repeal this law, the results are going to be disastrous. CBO, the Congressional Budget Office, is already estimating that 20 million Americans will lose their employer-provided health insurance. Health care premiums continue to soar. Innovation and life-saving technology and devices are being threatened. “The first step to putting individuals and families back in charge of their health care is to repeal ObamaCare, and I urge support.”
07.09.2012	Washington, D.C. – The House of Representatives passed H.R. 5892, the Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act,by a vote of 372-0 today. This bipartisan bill – authored by Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) – would facilitate the development of small hydropower and conduit projects and direct the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to study the feasibility of a streamlined two-year permitting process. Their legislation now moves to the Senate. “I’m so proud to join my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to celebrate the passage of this bill,” said McMorris Rodgers. “In Eastern Washington, hydropower plays a pivotal role – whether it’s conventional, small, or conduit hydro – it provides 75 percent of electricity to the Pacific Northwest and represents a unique opportunity for job creation and energy production. It’s clean, reliable, renewable and affordable. Unleashing American ingenuity to increase hydropower production will lower energy costs and help create thousands of jobs. The future of American energy independence depends on the development of an ‘all of the above’ energy approach – and I’m proud that hydro is finally on its way to being part of it.” “Today we launch a new path toward smarter, more efficient hydropower project permitting, and it’s a victory for us all that we are doing so on a bipartisan basis,” said DeGette. “For a state like Colorado, and indeed the entire nation, this legislation will expand renewable and affordable hydropower – far and away our nation’s largest source of clean energy – and create good jobs for American families. Together, the House has continued the bipartisan spirit in which the Act was created, to help get Americans back to work and take a step forward in our nation’s clean energy leadership.” “NHA appreciates the work of Reps. McMorris Rodgers and DeGette on this important legislation,” said Linda Church Ciocci, Executive Director of the National Hydropower Association. “The Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act will continue the growth of the hydropower industry by encouraging development to bring additional affordable clean power to more Americans. We urge the Senate to continue this momentum and deliver the bill to the President’s desk” To watch the Congresswoman’s remarks on the House floor, click here. To read the text of the bill, click here. ###
06.29.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) voted for a bipartisan bill today that reforms and reauthorizes critical transportation funding and safety programs, reauthorizes a national flood-insurance program, and freezes interest rates on certain federally-backed student loans. “I’m proud to vote for this legislation which will have a positive and direct impact on Eastern Washington, authorizing critical funding for road and bridge construction projects, like the North South Freeway, and keeping higher education affordable for those attending our colleges and universities,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. The Conference Report accompanying H.R. 4348 is a fully paid-for two-year authorization that does not raise taxes, consolidates duplicative programs, and streamlines regulatory red tape to allow road and highway construction projects to move forward faster and cost less. Additionally, the Conference Report extends through 2013 the Secure Rural Schools and PILT programs. The House and Senate passed today’s bill with large, bipartisan majorities. Unless Congress took action today, transportation funding was scheduled to stop on June 30, the interest rates on federally-backed student loans were scheduled to double from 3.4 percent to 6.8 percent on July 1, and the National Flood Insurance Program was due to expire July 3.
06.28.2012	While Law Might Be Constitutional, it’s Still Unworkable; Congress Will Continue “Repeal & Replace” Strategy; Time Has Come for Common Sense Reform Washington, D.C. –After being inside the Supreme Court for their historic ruling on the health care reform law, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement: “As a mom with two young children, a wife who helps balance the family budget, and someone who helped run a family-owned small business, I am disappointed the Supreme Court has decided to uphold ObamaCare – especially the individual mandate, which is an unprecedented expansion of government power. The health care law that passed Congress over the will of the American people two years ago was a disastrous law that raised costs, made it harder for small businesses to hire employees, and cut Medicare, among other things. Now, after months of deliberation, the Supreme Court has ruled that while the law might be unworkable, it’s not unconstitutional. While I do not agree with the Court’s decision, I respect it and encourage others to do the same. The Court’s ruling will have no impact on Congress’ continuing efforts to repeal the law. In fact, we are more determined than ever to repeal it and replace it with something better. “Instead of celebrating, President Obama should recognize the inherent problems with his law and work with Republicans to find better solutions. Together, we should implement a series of common-sense, step-by-step reforms that will put patients in charge of their health care decisions and use the principles of choice and competition to expand access, lower costs, and improve quality.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers voted against the health care reform law in 2010, and voted to repeal it in 2011. She signed the American Center for Law and Justice (ACLJ)’s amicus brief in support of Florida’s challenge to the health care law. ###
06.27.2012	Washington, D.C. – Today at a meeting of the House Republican Conference, Vice Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers announced the winners of the 2012 House GOP New Media Challenge: “I’m pleased to announce Congressmen Justin Amash, Vern Buchanan, and Lou Barletta are this year’s winners. Their success, and the success of the contest, should send a strong signal to observers that the Republican Majority in the House is committed to listening, engaging, and staying connected with our constituents.” Rep. Justin Amash, a freshman lawmaker from Michigan took first place. He commented, "Social media is revolutionizing government and making Congress more accountable. I use Facebook to explain every vote I take on the House floor, and I personally interact with my constituents online. This not only empowers people at home but also shapes me into a better Representative. It's an honor to win this year's contest, and it's a big win for the forces of liberty and transparency." Rep. Vern Buchanan, a veteran lawmaker from Florida, took second place. “It’s an honor to be recognized by your peers for having one of the best constituent outreach programs in the entire Congress. Since its inception, the New Media Challenge has been a way for Members to challenge each other to stay ahead of the curve online. Whether it's Facebook, Twitter or YouTube, I believe in listening to the people and giving them every opportunity to voice their views.” Rep. Lou Barletta, a freshman lawmaker from Pennsylvania, rounded out the Challenge by winning the bronze bracket. He said, “It’s incredibly useful to communicate directly and in real-time with my constituents back home. Whether it’s listening to everyday concerns, or sharing information about what we’re working on in Washington that will affect my district, new media is an important part of my communication plan. My colleagues and I recognize that, and through this Challenge, we’ve shown we’re embracing it.” Altogether, 96 Members and Committees generated over 50,000 new Facebook likes, Twitter followers, and YouTube subscribers during the seven-week Challenge. A staff debrief will be held in the coming weeks to share best practices and innovative tactics developed during this year’s contest. Now in its third year, the New Media Challenge is part of Vice Chair McMorris Rodgers’ leadership efforts to help equip House Republicans with innovative communications tools. ###
06.20.2012	Washington, D.C. – The House Energy and Commerce Committee passed HR, 5892, the Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act of 2012 today. This bipartisan bill – authored by Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO) – would facilitate the development of small hydropower and conduit projects and direct the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to study the feasibility of a streamlined two-year permitting process. Their legislation now moves to the House floor. “In my district, hydro plays a crucial role – whether it’s conventional, small, or conduit hydro,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “In fact, hydropower provides 75 percent of electricity to Eastern Washington and to the Pacific Northwest region. While there are a vast array of renewable energies – including solar, wind, and nuclear power – in my opinion, the facts are clear: the future of American energy independence depends on the development of an ‘all of the above’ energy approach – including hydro. That’s why Congresswoman DeGette and I have been working to expand hydropower production. Our bill is timely and targeted and it will create jobs and bolster America’s competitiveness in the energy sector.” “Today we take a major step down a new path towards smarter, more efficient hydropower project permitting,” said Rep. DeGette. “For a state like Colorado, and indeed the entire nation, this bipartisan legislation will expand renewable and affordable hydropower – far and away our Nation’s largest source of clean energy – and create good jobs for American families. I now look forward to bringing this bill to the Floor where we can continue the bipartisan spirit in which it was created to help get Americans back to work and take a step forward in our nation’s clean energy leadership.” “NHA applauds the House Energy and Commerce Committee for their swift action on the Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act of 2012,” said Linda Church Ciocci, Executive Director of the National Hydropower Association (NHA). “With policies like this, we can more quickly bring additional hydropower online. Tapping clean, domestic hydropower not only brings us closer to achieving national energy goals, but can help create and support thousands of jobs across the country. Reps. Cathy McMorris Rodgers and Diana DeGette have put together a strong bill, as evidenced by the speed at which it is moving. With such regionally-diverse bipartisan support, we urge House leadership to bring the bill to floor consideration as soon as possible. NHA stands ready to work with Congress to bring a final bill to the president’s desk.”
06.19.2012	Project will help improve the movement of consumer and freight traffic in Eastern Washington. WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, U.S. Senators Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and Patty Murray (D-WA) and U.S. Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA-05) announced that the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) will award a $10 million competitive grant to the North Spokane Corridor (NSC) project on Friday. The Washington State Department of Transportation (WSDOT), which applied for the TIGER (Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery) grant in March, will use the grant to: Relocate 7.5 miles of BNSF mainline and switch spur rail tracks near the Freya Street interchange Extend an existing 5.5-mile bicycle/pedestrian trail for more than one mile to serve the Hillyard neighborhood Each of these components is critical to the NSC’s completion and will help bring the project one step closer to I-90. “This investment is a major step forward for Eastern Washington businesses and jobs,” said Senator Maria Cantwell. “The North Spokane Corridor is one of my top transportation priorities, because of the significant benefits for Spokane area businesses, families and travelers. Today’s great news is a result of the bipartisan effort with Senator Murray, Representative McMorris Rodgers, Governor Gregoire, Mayor Condon, WSDOT, and Spokane community and business leaders like Rich Hadley. When completed, the North Spokane Corridor will expedite the movement of freight through the region and enable business growth on nearby land.” “I created the TIGER program to invest in projects like the North Spokane Corridor that boost the local economy, get workers on the job, and lay down a strong foundation for long-term economic growth,” said Senator Patty Murray.“The North Spokane Corridor is so important to the local economy, and I was proud to work with Senator Cantwell to push the Department of Transportation to make this important investment.” “This is great news for Eastern Washington and our state,” said Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers.“The North Spokane Freeway has been – and continues to be – an effective multimodal transportation system that has the potential to create thousands of jobs and bring hundreds of millions of dollars in new tax revenue to our community. I appreciate WSDOT for submitting the grant, DOT for approving it, the bipartisan efforts of Senators Cantwell and Murray, and the outstanding work of our community leaders, including Betsy Cowles, Steve Robinson, and Wayne Brokaw of Keep Spokane Moving and Rich Hadley of Greater Spokane Inc. I will continue to work with all of these leaders to complete the North Spokane Freeway and bolster Eastern Washington’s economy.” “Once again, our thanks go to our federal delegation of Sen. Patty Murray, Sen. Maria Cantwell, and Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers for their ongoing commitment to seeing this important transportation and economic link built in Spokane,” said Spokane Mayor David Condon. “We are enhancing connectivity to our City and the movement of people and goods. I also want to thank the Northeast Mayors Association for their efforts to make this corridor a top priority for our region.” Cantwell, Murray and McMorris Rodgers have been strong advocates of WSDOT’s request for a TIGER grant for the NSC. In an April 16 letter to USDOT Secretary Ray LaHood, Cantwell, Murray and McMorris Rodgers expressed strong, bipartisan support for WSDOT’s grant application. This spring, Cantwell, Murray and McMorris Rodgers each spoke to LaHood individually and urged him to support the project with a grant. A completed NSC would be a tremendous boost to Eastern Washington’s freight network. Once it’s done, the NSC would allow trucks and commuters to bypass city streets with 29 stoplights for a modern, high-speed roadway that links I-90 with US-395. This would save an estimated 30 minutes of driving time, divert up to 100,000 trips per day from city streets and reduce annual travel time up and down the corridor by 9.4 million hours per year. The estimated value of these efficiencies is $240 million each year. Those hours will add up for the farmers and manufacturers that transport goods and materials through the corridor. According to WSDOT, freight-dependent industries in Spokane County employed nearly 100,000 people in 2009, the most recent year data is available. Each year, $13.5 billion dollars of freight move along the existing corridor – or about 7 million tons. The NSC will help spur economic development in the future. The completed NSC will also increase access to more than 500 acres of commercial and industrial land ripe for development. In 2010, more than 533 million tons of freight moved in Washington – a number expected to grow by 86 percent by 2040. ###
06.14.2012	Columbus, GA– Reps. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) and Sanford Bishop, Jr. (GA-02), Co-Chairs of the Congressional Military Family Caucus (CMFC), hosted a successful Military Family Summit today at the National Infantry Museum and Soldier Center near Fort Benning, Georgia. The summit brought together military families, Department of Defense officials, Department of Veterans Affairs personnel, and various military and veteran support organizations to discuss the issues impacting America’s service members and their families. Military spouses, veterans, counselors, educators and advocates voiced their concerns about homelessness in the veteran community, individual battles with PTSD, loss of employment due to relocation, and sacrifices stemming from the redeployment of loved ones. “As Co-Chairs of the Military Family Caucus, we recognize that when a service member joins the military, it’s not just a job; it’s a family commitment to our country,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers during her opening remarks. “As the wife of a retired Navy pilot, I’ve come to better appreciate the unique challenges our military families face and I’m committed to doing all we can in Congress to address them.” After sharing his own personal struggles living in a military family, Rep. Bishop commented, “I mention my wife and her family’s experiences because often we tend to focus primarily on the service members who willingly put themselves in harm’s way to protect the freedoms we cherish. However, we cannot forget that the families they leave behind sacrifice just as much as our heroes who deploy on missions for our country.” Keynote speakers included Mrs. Patricia Shinseki of the White House Joining Forces Initiative; Secretary Robert L. Gordon, the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Military Community and Family Policy; and Lieutenant General Michael Ferriter, the Commander of the U.S. Army Installation Management Command and Assistant Chief of Staff for Installation Management. Representatives from the Wounded Warrior Project, Blue Star Families, the Military Child Education Coalition, and many other service groups also participated. The CMFC is a bipartisan congressional caucus that educates elected officials, congressional staffers, senior military leaders and the public on a wide range of unique issues that affect military families. Currently, over 80 Democrats and Republicans are members of the CMFC. Follow the Caucus on Facebook by clicking here.
06.07.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), a member of the House Energy & Commerce Committee, applauded the House’s passage of legislation repealing the 2.3 percent tax on medical devices, which was included in President Obama’s health care reform law. “I’m excited the House passed this bill which will stop a job-crushing tax from being imposed on one of America’s most dynamic industries,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Despite being the world’s leader for decades, America’s medical device industry has suffered under this Administration’s tax and regulatory policies. A few months ago, I hosted a ‘Jobs and Innovation Forum’ with medical device CEOs, and one of them said, ‘If the government wanted to kill our industry, they’re doing a great job of it.’ Congress owes it to our job creators to create a better environment for job growth. Today’s bill – by repealing one of 18 new taxes in the 2010 health care reform law – is a great step in that direction. The Senate should pass it along with the more than 30 jobs bills the House has passed but the Senate refuses to consider.” In the United States, medical technology is directly responsible for employing more than 400,000 people and transporting more than $135 billion in products around the world. In Washington State alone, more than 8,700 jobs have been created by the medical innovation industry with more than $2 billion in sales. Rep. McMorris Rodgers spoke about the importance of today’s legislation at Wednesday’s Republican Leadership press conference. To watch her remarks, click here. Last week, the U.S. House approved the FDA Reform Act, which includes the Congresswoman’s bill, theKeeping America Competitive Through Harmonization Act, which streamlines the regulatory process for medical devices.
06.07.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), authors of HR 5892, the Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act of 2012, applauded the House Energy & Power Subcommittee’s approval of their bill today. Their legislation would facilitate the development of small hydropower and conduit projects, and direct the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to study the feasibility of a streamlined two-year permitting process. The bill will now be considered by the full Energy & Commerce Committee. “In my district, hydro plays a crucial role – whether it’s conventional, small, or conduit hydro,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “In fact, hydropower provides 75 percent of electricity to Eastern Washington and to the Pacific Northwest region. While there are a vast array of renewable energies – including solar, wind, and nuclear power – in my opinion, the facts are clear: the future of American energy independence depends on the development of an ‘all of the above’ energy approach – including hydro. That’s why Congresswoman DeGette and I have been working to expand hydropower production. Our bill is timely and targeted and it will create jobs and bolster America’s competitiveness in the energy sector.” “The Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act makes sense for America,” said Rep. Diana DeGette. “It charts a new path towards smarter, more efficient hydropower project permitting. This bipartisan legislation will expand renewable and affordable hydropower across the country, especially in my home state of Colorado, while creating good-paying manufacturing jobs for hardworking Americans. Today’s markup is an important step in getting the Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act signed into law.” Last week, Rep. McMorris Rodgers sent a letter to President Obama urging him to include hydropower in his “all of the above” energy approach. To read the letter, click here.
05.30.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), a member of the House Energy & Commerce Committee, applauded the House’s passage of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Reform Act today. This legislation – which ensures continuation of various FDA programs – contains her bill, the Keeping America Competitive through Harmonization Act, which would streamline the regulatory process for medical devices,allowing the FDA to enter into agreements with other countries like Australia, Canada, and those in the European Union in order to harmonize inspections and provide for common international labels of medical devices. “With unemployment in the U.S. still over 8 percent and with many folks giving up on finding jobs, we need to pass legislation that allows for American job creation,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “According to job creators like Steve Ferguson of Cook Group, who participated at the Jobs and Innovation Forum on Medical Devices, harmonizing FDA requirements with those of foreign regulators would help improve FDA regulation and thus improve the environment for creating jobs in America.” In the United States, medical technology is directly responsible for employing more than 400,000 people and transporting more than $135 billion in products around the world. In Washington State alone, more than 8,700 jobs have been created by the medical innovation industry with more than $2 billion in sales. On Sep. 20, 2011, Rep. McMorris Rodgers hosted the first “Jobs and Innovation Forum” on Capitol Hill with a special focus on medical device innovators, how the regulatory process impedes them, and how to improve that process. The next day, The Hill published her op-ed, The Medical Device Industry and Jobs. To read it, click here.
05.23.2012	Spokane, WA – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) announced its intention today to revise their national stormwater regulations to clarify that a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit is not required for stormwater discharges from logging roads: “While this is a step in the right direction, it’s far from the outcome we need. While the EPA’s decision shows that we all agree on the right policy outcome (Best Management Practices, not permits), their insistence that the only way to achieve this outcome with certainly is through legislation or the courts will continue to stifle job creation and hinder growth in the timber industry. We need a firm ruling from the EPA that 35 years of federal environmental policy will be upheld and that forest stormwater runoff produced during logging will continue to be regulated by state forestry laws, not by the federal Clean Water Act (CWA).” In 2010, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that forest stormwater runoff produced during logging must be regulated by the CWA – a flawed decision, especially at a time of so much economic suffering. Last year, the court reaffirmed its decision in a final ruling. Rep. McMorris Rodgers is an original cosponsor of H.R. 2541, the Silviculture Regulatory Consistency Act, a bipartisan bill that would restore the federal government’s previous policy under CWA and protect jobs. The Congresswoman’s op-ed, Court Decision Would Cripple Logging, was published in September 2011 by several Eastern Washington papers. To read it, click here.
05.23.2012	Obama Administration, IMF & EU Continue to Go in Wrong Direction; Tens of Billions of US Tax Money Threatened; Only Real Solution is Fiscal Discipline Spokane, WA – With European Union (EU) leaders meeting in Brussels today amidst growing concern that Greece may abandon the euro after receiving about $500 billion in global bailouts, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement warning that the decisions by the EU, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), and the Obama Administration to paper over the European debt crisis with bailouts – partly funded by U.S. taxpayers – will fail and the only way to truly solve the crisis is through serious fiscal discipline: “At this point, it should be clear that America and the IMF are throwing good money after bad, and the only real solution is for Greece and the European Union to stop their borrowing addiction, instead of papering it over. The Greek bailout, in particular, has been a failure. When the bailouts began in May 2010, Greece’s debt-to-GDP ratio was 113 percent. Today, it’s 159 percent. And Greece continues to run a deficit equal to 10 percent of its economy. There is no way for Greece to start reducing its debt burden until those deficits stop. It’s just simple math. Of course, that’s equally true for America. We’re not that far behind. Which is why we must start getting serious about protecting U.S. tax dollars and ending the ‘too big to fail’ philosophy. The only thing ‘too big to fail’ is America itself.” Nearly one-third of the Greek bailout is financed by the IMF, and the U.S. is the largest contributor to the IMF. In March 2010, Rep. McMorris Rodgers was the first Member of Congress to publicly oppose U.S. participation through the IMF in the EU bailouts. She is the author of HR 2313, which would rescind what remains of a $100 billion line of credit to the IMF (created in 2009, known as the “New Arrangements to Borrow”), which is being tapped for the European bailouts. The bill has 94 cosponsors. “The purpose of reducing our IMF funding to pre-Obama levels isn’t to punish Europe. Rather, it’s meant to help Europe make the tough choices that are necessary for a true, sustainable recovery. That recovery can’t happen until job creators – in Europe and the U.S. – gain confidence that the world’s governments have the discipline to get spending and borrowing under control and unleash the power of free enterprise.” A compilation of the Congresswoman’s work on this issue can be found here.
05.21.2012	Spokane, WA – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) joined prominent military leaders today to celebrate the groundbreaking of the new physical fitness center at Fairchild Air Force Base today. The $18.7 million fitness center will support Fairchild’s population of nearly 10,000 military and civilian personnel, in addition to 16,900 retirees in the Spokane area. The previous fitness center, which was constructed in 1943, has been entirely replaced with a twenty-first century, state-of-the-art facility. “The groundbreaking of this brand new physical fitness center is a perfect example of how Fairchild aims to provide the best resources to its service members,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers at the groundbreaking. “A big part of ensuring they have the proper resources to win on the battlefield – at home and abroad – includes updating our facilities here at the base. And so today we have a lot to celebrate.” The new physical fitness center includes many updated amenities, including an aquatics center, basketball and racquetball courts, weight and cardio rooms, a Health and Wellness Center, and a 1/8 mile indoor running track. Built by the Lydig Corporation, the new fitness center provides the most up-to-date resources for Fairchild’s Airmen.
05.21.2012	Spokane, WA – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) joined General Raymond E. Johns, Jr., Commander of the Air Mobility Command, and other military and community leaders today for a successful “Forward Fairchild” meeting at Fairchild Air Force Base. Just days after the Air Force announced the strategic basing criteria for the KC-46A refueling tankers, the leaders convened to discuss the KC-46A refueling tankers and their continued efforts to bring them to Fairchild. “One of my top priorities at the federal level is to ensure that Fairchild is the home of the new tankers,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “After examining the Air Force’s basing criteria, I believe that Fairchild is in a highly competitive position to receive the first KC-46A tankers. Fairchild not only has the capacity to house the tankers, but it offers a cohesive partnership between the Active and Guard Wings, and the base is strategically positioned as the Air Force continues to pivot to the Asia-Pacific region. We have many reasons to be optimistic.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers joined General Johns in leading a pertinent discussion about future efforts to bring the tankers to Fairchild. They discussed the Air Force’s timeline and criteria, in addition to Fairchild’s many competitive advantages. The Air Force will launch an enterprise-wide evaluation of all eligible bases, and the candidate bases will be announced in the upcoming months. Shortly thereafter, the Air Mobility Command will conduct site surveys at each base, and the Air Force will announce the preferred and reasonable alternate bases in December 2012. This week, Rep. McMorris Rodgers joined Senators Patty Murray and Maria Cantwell – and the full, bipartisan Washington state delegation – in a letter urging U.S. Air Force Secretary Michael B. Donley to select Fairchild Air Force Base as a home for the KC-46A aerial refueling program. To read the letter, click here. “Today’s meeting provided a unique opportunity to meet with many military and community leaders to discuss an issue that remains at the forefront of all of our minds: the future of Fairchild. The strengths our Air Force Base offers are innumerable. I’m eager to continue working together to make sure the new tankers are stationed there.”
05.17.2012	Washington, DC— Today, in a letter led by Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Sen. Patty Murray (D-WA), and Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA), the full, bipartisan Washington state Congressional delegation urged U.S. Air Force Secretary Michael B. Donley to select Fairchild Air Force Base as a home for the KC-46A aerial refueling program. Following the Air Force’s release of its basing criteria on Monday, today’s letter is the latest effort by the delegation to lay out the exceptional assets Fairchild Air Force Base has to offer the new fleet. “Fairchild Air Force Base has been a historic part of our nation’s aerial refueling effort and is well positioned to achieve global-level reach, especially to the emerging Asia-Pacific theater,” the delegation members wrote. “The base is a strategic staging platform, supporting the rapid worldwide global mobility mission with access to a number of aerial refueling routes while minimizing transit fuel consumption. We believe the recently announced strategic basing criterion situates Fairchild Air Force Base in a very competitive position. The KC-46A is intended to replace the U.S. Air Force's aging fleet of KC-135 Stratotankers which has been the primary refueling aircraft for more than 50 years. With more refueling capacity and enhanced capabilities, improved efficiency and increased capabilities for cargo and aeromedical evacuation, the KC-46A will provide aerial refueling support to the Air Force, Navy, Marine Corps as well as allied nation coalition force aircraft. The full text of the letter follows: The Honorable Michael B. Donley Secretary of the Air Force 1690 Air Force Pentagon Washington, DC 20330 Dear Secretary Donley: On behalf of the Washington State delegation, we would like to extend our appreciation for the service and sacrifice made by the men, women, and families of the United States Air Force. In honor of their effort and service, we applaud the recently released diligent, timely, and thorough strategic basing criteria for the KC-46A aerial refueling tanker – a set of criteria that is exceptionally important to this critical mission and Fairchild Air Force Base in our home state of Washington. Fairchild Air Force Base has been a historic part of our nation’s aerial refueling effort and is well positioned to achieve global-level reach, especially to the emerging Asia-Pacific theater. The base is a strategic staging platform, supporting the rapid worldwide global mobility mission with access to a number of aerial refueling routes while minimizing transit fuel consumption. We believe the recently announced strategic basing criterion situates Fairchild Air Force Base in a very competitive position. Currently, Fairchild is home to a classic association of the 92nd Air Refueling Wing with the Air National Guard 141st Air Refueling Wing. As we have previously illustrated, this association marries the best the active duty and reserve components have to offer, providing for world-class aerial refueling, airlift and aeromedical evacuation capabilities while fostering innovation and efficiency in operation. As you know, the Air Force also continues to recognize Fairchild Air Force Base’s assets and has invested over $400 million in base infrastructure over the last several decades. To that end, Fairchild already possesses much of the needed capacity to accommodate the new KC-46A aerial refueling tanker as the Air Force has already improved the 14,000 foot runway, invested in a new, state-of-the-art fitness center, and last month broke ground on a new wing command headquarters that will better integrate active-duty Airmen and Air National Guardsmen. Furthermore, Fairchild Air Force Base provides an exceptional quality of life for its Airmen and the local community has embraced the base. It is a strongly desired duty station and is the second most requested Air Force assignment in the United States. The Spokane community is an award winning, proud military community that embraces all military personnel, their families, and retirees and is worthy of hosting the KC-46A aerial refueling tankers. We ask you to keep us briefed as the strategic basing process continues and look forward to working with you to base the new KC-46A tanker fleet at Fairchild Air Force Base. Sincerely, U.S. Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers U.S. Senator Patty Murray U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell U.S. Representative Rick Larsen U.S. Representative Jaime Herrera Beutler U.S. Representative Doc Hastings U.S. Representative Norm Dicks U.S. Representative Jim McDermott U.S. Representative Dave Reichert U.S. Representative Adam Smith Cc: General Norton A. Schwartz, Chief of Staff of the U.S. Air Force General Raymond E. Johns Jr., Commander of Air Mobility Command General Craig R. McKinley, Chief of National Guard Bureau ###
05.16.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today after joining a majority of her House colleagues in voting to reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). “Each year there are over 200,000 victims of sexual assault, and one in six women are raped in their lifetime. While these numbers are devastating, since the enactment of the first Violence Against Women Act almost 20 years ago, the annual number of incidents has dramatically fallen, while the reporting rate has risen by over 50 percent. “The programs in H.R. 4970 are critical to continue the fight for equality and women’s rights. The bill we passed today makes common-sense reforms to ensure that more money actually benefits victims and is dedicated to eliminating the astounding backlog in rape kit tests. “Additionally, today we are approving vital funding for rape prevention educational programs, youth victim services, and improvements to emergency and transitional housing services for victims. “Since its enactment, The Violence Against Women Act has enjoyed bipartisan support. This is not a Republican or Democrat, conservative or liberal issue. Together, we uniformly stand against violence against anyone. “I am pleased we have passed H.R. 4970, the Violence Against Women Act Reauthorization of 2012, a victim-centered bill that will extend vital programs that protect against and prevent both physical and mental violence.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers spoke in favor of VAWA at today’s Republican Leadership press conference. To watch her remarks, click here.
05.14.2012	“A Key Step in Making Fairchild the First Home of the New Tanker” Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, applauded the Air Force’s release of its KC-46A tanker basing criteria today. These criteria will be used to select candidate bases for the KC-46A formal training unit and the first two main operating bases. “I am grateful to the Air Force for its diligent, timely and thorough evaluation of the tanker strategic basing criteria – a set of criteria that is exceptionally important to Fairchild Air Force Base and all of Eastern Washington,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “I will continue working closely with the Air Force – including Secretary Michael Donley – to ensure that Fairchild is the first home of the new KC-46A tanker.” The Air Force basing criteria include: mission, capacity, environmental requirements and cost factors, all of which will be closely evaluated in the upcoming months. The Air Force will use these criteria to conduct an enterprise-wide review of potential base candidates and make recommendations to the Secretary later this summer. Afterwards, Air Mobility Command will conduct site surveys at each candidate base. In December, the final candidates will be announced and the environmental impact process will be initiated. “Given the crucial role that tankers play in the execution of strategic U.S. military operations – and the multitude of advantages Fairchild offers – I believe it is essential that the new KC-46A tankers will be stationed at Fairchild Air Force Base. Today’s announcement of basing criteria is a key step in the process, and I eagerly await the Air Force’s further evaluations. Until then, I will continue to serve as a proud and vocal advocate for Fairchild Air Force Base.” ###
05.11.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, was honored by the Healthcare Leadership Council (HLC) with their “Champion of Healthcare Innovation” award, the Congresswoman’s office announced today. The annual award recognizes lawmakers who support patient-centered medical progress. “I am proud to accept the ‘Champion of Healthcare Innovation Award,’” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “The Healthcare Leadership Council is an outstanding leader for America’s patients and providers, and I’ve enjoyed working with them on shared priorities, including expanding patient choice, emphasizing wellness, and fostering a climate of innovation.” “Perfecting a 21st century healthcare system that is both affordable and accessible for all Americans and that provides care of the highest quality hinges on support for healthcare innovation. We need to constantly develop new and better ways to deliver care and link patients and consumers to the healthcare system,” said HLC president Mary R. Grealy. “We’re grateful for Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers’ leadership, dedication and hard work in advancing the quality, accessibility and cost-effectiveness of American healthcare.” The Healthcare Leadership Council is a coalition of national health care leaders whose purpose is to develop policies to create a 21st century health care system in which affordable, high-quality care is available to all Americans. To learn more about Rep. McMorris Rodgers’ work on health care, click here.
05.10.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), a member of the House Energy & Commerce Committee, applauded the Committee’ passage of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Reform Act today. This legislation – which ensures continuation of various FDA programs – contains her bill, the Keeping America Competitive through Harmonization Act, which would streamline the regulatory process for medical devices,allowing the FDA to enter into agreements with other countries like Australia, Canada, and those in the European Union in order to harmonize inspections and provide for common international labels of medical devices. “With unemployment in the U.S. still over 8 percent and with many folks giving up on finding jobs, we need to pass legislation that allows for American job creation,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “According to job creators like Steve Ferguson of Cook Group, who participated at the Jobs and Innovation Forum on Medical Devices, harmonizing FDA requirements with those of foreign regulators would help improve FDA regulation and thus improve the environment for creating jobs in America.” In the United States, medical technology is directly responsible for employing more than 400,000 people and transporting more than $135 billion in products around the world. In Washington State alone, more than 8,700 jobs have been created by the medical innovation industry with more than $2 billion in sales. On Sep. 20, 2011, Rep. McMorris Rodgers hosted the first “Jobs and Innovation Forum” on Capitol Hill with a special focus on medical device innovators, how the regulatory process impedes them, and how to improve that process. The next day, The Hill published her op-ed, The Medical Device Industry and Jobs. To read it, click here.
05.09.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Co-Chair of the Congressional Hydropower Caucus, advocated for her forthcoming bill, the Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act of 2012, at an Energy & Power Subcommittee hearing today. The Congresswoman’s bill would facilitate the development of small hydropower and conduit projects, and direct the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to study the feasibility of a streamlined two-year permitting process. “In my district, hydro plays a crucial role – whether it’s conventional, small, or conduit hydro,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “In fact, hydropower provides 75 percent of electricity, to Eastern Washington and to the Pacific Northwest region. While there are a vast array of renewable energies – including solar, wind, and nuclear power – in my opinion, the facts are clear: the future of American energy independence depends on the development of an ‘all of the above’ energy approach – including hydro. That’s why Congresswoman Diana DeGette and I have been working to expand hydropower production. Our bill is timely and targeted and it will create jobs and bolster America’s competitiveness in the energy sector.” During the hearing, Rep. McMorris Rodgers also questioned Department of Energy Assistant Secretary for Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability Patricia Hoffman about why hydropower is missing from the President’s desired energy mix. “Where is hydropower?” asked Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Am I to conclude that President Obama doesn’t see a future role for hydropower, and that he is actually picking wind and solar over hydropower as a renewable source of energy?” To watch the exchange, click here. The Congresswoman’s prepared opening statement is below. Mr. Chairman, I would like to thank you for holding this hearing as well as thank our witnesses for taking the time to testify before the Subcommittee today. In my district, hydro plays a crucial role – whether it’s conventional, small, or conduit hydro. In fact, hydropower provides 75 percent of electricity, to Eastern Washington and to the Pacific Northwest region. While there are a vast array of renewable energies –including solar, wind, and nuclear power – in my opinion, the facts are clear: the future of American energy independence depends on the development of an all of the above energy approach – including hydro. Hydropower’s value can’t be overlooked. And its potential cannot be underestimated. That’s why Congresswoman Diana DeGette and I have been working to expand hydropower production. Today, this committee will examine our bill, the Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act. This bill would facilitate the development of hydropower and conduit projects through several common-sense reforms such as: Updating the FERC license exemption standard to streamline the development of more small hydro projects. Giving FERC the option to exempt hydro projects generating under 10 megawatts and conduit projects generating between 5-40 megawatts from the permitting process. Allowing FERC to extend the term of a preliminary permit for up to two years, for a total of five years, in order to allow a permittee sufficient time to develop and file a license application. Our bill is timely and targeted and it will create jobs and bolster America’s competitiveness in the energy sector. I would like to take this opportunity to introduce one of our witnesses on today’s second panel. I have had the privilege of knowing Andrew Munro for the past few years. Andrew serves on the Grant County Public Utility District, in Washington State. He formerly served as the President, CEO, and Chairman of the Board of the National Hydropower Association. Andrew understands the importance of this bill and sees it as a stepping stone for future hydropower legislation. Again, I thank the all of our witnesses for participating and for the Chairman for holding this hearing.
05.09.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus, joined her fellow her Co-Chairs, Sen. Barbara Boxer (D-CA), Sen. Richard Burr (R-NC) and Rep. Sanford Bishop (D-GA), for the release of the 2012 Blue Star Families Military Family Lifestyle survey today. The third consecutive survey fielded by Blue Star Families details the many challenges faced by military families after more than a decade of continuing war, and the ways families and service members are coping. “When a service member joins the military, it’s not just a job; it’s a family commitment to our country,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “This year’s Blue Star Families Military Family Lifestyle survey will help us better understand the challenges that military families face every day, give us actionable data to meet their needs, and elevate our nation’s commitment in a way that makes our military families safer and stronger.” Blue Star Families is a national, nonpartisan, nonprofit network of military families from all ranks and services including guard and reserve, with a mission to support, connect and empower military families. This year’s report identified several key concerns, including pay/benefits, with specific emphasis on changes to retirement benefits, the effects of deployment on children, general operational tempo (OPTEMPO), military spouse employment, and issues surrounding Post Traumatic Stress (PTS), and Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI). Today’s launch event was held at the U.S. Capitol Visitors Center and was attended by government, military and community leaders, experts on military and family issues, and military service members and their families. To read Blue Star Families’ full report, go to http://bluestarfam.org/2012survey.
05.04.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today after the Labor Department announced its April unemployment report, showing that employment fell by 169,000 last month: “Nearly three years after the recession officially ended, the U.S. economy continues to move at a snail’s pace, burdened by the Administration’s Big Government policies. This is in sharp contrast to the ‘Reagan Recovery,’ which was stronger and quicker, bolstered by pro-growth, free-market policies. House Republicans have passed over 30 jobs bills which are sitting on the Senate’s doorstep. We’ve also passed the ‘Ryan Plan,’ which will jumpstart our economy by cutting taxes, cutting spending, and putting our fiscal house in order. Instead of campaigning around the country and blaming Congress, the President should work with Congress in a bipartisan way to advance pro-growth legislation that will create jobs, spark innovation, and expand opportunity.” The national unemployment rate stands at 8.1 percent. It’s been above 8 percent for 39 straight months – the longest streak since the Great Depression.
05.02.2012	Spokane, WA – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) gave a “Federal Legislative Update” about the North Spokane Freeway at a Keep Spokane Moving Coalition event today. The Freeway is a multi-generational project that will connect trade routes throughout Eastern Washington, the region, and Canada, helping farmers and small business owners transport their goods and commodities throughout North America. Rep. McMorris Rodgers has been working closely with state, local, and federal leaders to secure funding to complete the Freeway. “The North Spokane Freeway has been – and continues to be – an effective multimodal transportation system that has the potential to create thousands of jobs and bring hundreds of millions of dollars in new tax revenue to our community,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “There is a role for the federal government in funding infrastructure projects, like the North Spokane Freeway. And by working together at the state and local levels, I know we can increase the likelihood of earning more federal support. Today’s event was an important step forward in achieving our goal of completing the Freeway and boosting Eastern Washington’s economy.” In February, the Washington State Department of Transportation (WSDOT) submitted a Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) IV grant application for the North Spokane Freeway. In April, Rep. Morris Rodgers, Sen. Patty Murray, and Sen. Maria Cantwell sent a letter to the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) expressing strong support for the WSDOT application. A decision by DOT could come as soon as this month. Local leaders at today’s event included Keith Metcalf, Eastern Region Director, WSDOT; Ms. Betsy Cowles, Co-Chair, Keep Spokane Moving Coalition; Mr. Steve Robinson, Co-Chair, Keep Spokane Moving Coalition, and Mr. Wayne Brokaw, Keep Spokane Moving Coalition.
04.25.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) hosted a meeting today between Spokane leaders and General Philip M. Breedlove, Vice Chief of Staff of the U.S. Air Force, to discuss efforts to bolster Fairchild Air Force Base, the largest employer in Eastern Washington, including making sure that Fairchild is the first home of the new KC-46A tanker. “I was delighted to bring Spokane’s leaders face-to-face with General Breedlove so we could have a candid, in-depth discussion on one the most important issues facing our community,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “I appreciate General Breedlove for taking the time to meet with us and we look forward to continuing to work with him on this critical issue that affects us all.” The key topic at today’s meeting was replacing the aging KC-135’s at Fairfield Air Force Base with the new KC-46A tanker currently being built by Boeing. The Air Force is current developing basing criteria for the KC-46A, which should be available later this spring. “Whether you’re considering the age of Fairchild’s current tankers or the base’s proximity to Asia, or whether you’re considering the high quality of Fairchild’s leadership or the courage of its service members and their families, no base in the entire country is better qualified to serve as the first home of the new tankers than Fairchild,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. Leaders at today’s meeting included Spokane Mayor David Condon, Spokane County Commissioner Todd Mielke, Greater Spokane Incorporated President and CEO Rich Hadley, and Forward Fairchild Chairman Greg Bever, among others. Rep. McMorris Rodgers is also organizing a meeting between Spokane leaders and Ms. Kathleen Ferguson, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, Installations, that will take place at the Pentagon tomorrow. This is the eighth straight year Rep. McMorris Rodgers has led a meeting between Spokane leaders and high-ranking Pentagon officials in Washington, D.C.
04.25.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, and other House Republican leaders held a press conference today to announce their proposal to reauthorize the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). The legislation – which is being introduced by Rep. Sandy Adams (R-FL), a member of the House Judiciary Committee and a domestic violence survivor – will protect the true victims of domestic violence and sexual assault while ensuring that government resources go directly to the victims, not to Washington bureaucrats. “The Violence Against Women Act is a critical tool for stopping domestic violence and sexual assault, and supporting the victims of these crimes – and House Republicans believe it must be renewed,” said Vice Chair McMorris Rodgers. “This week, we are introducing a five-year reauthorization of this lawand it’s our hope that it can be passed quickly in a bipartisan fashion – as it’s always been done in the past.” Rep. Adams and Rep. Kristi Noem (R-SD) hosted today’s press conference. Over a dozen House Republicans participated, including Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-VA) and Conference Chair Jeb Hensarling (R-TX).
04.19.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, joined a majority of her House colleagues in voting for the Small Business Tax Cut Act today. This legislation – which now moves to the Senate – will boost the economy and create jobs by allowing small businesses to deduct 20 percent of their income from taxes. This tax cut will benefit nearly 22 million small businesses. “I am proud to join my colleagues in voting for this pro-growth, pro-opportunity legislation,” said Vice Chair McMorris Rodgers. “As someone who worked at a family-owned small business, I can tell you that every dollar that a business saves in taxes is a dollar that can be plowed back into the company for job creation and expansion. When I’m home in Eastern Washington and meet with our job creators, they tell me the government’s tax burden is still too high, and they need relief. This bill will provide that relief along with a much-needed boost to our economy.” According to the Small Business Administration Office of Advocacy, small businesses represent 99.9 percent of the 27.5 million businesses in America.
04.17.2012	Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today in recognition of Tax Day: “Every year, on ‘Tax Day,’ we reflect on the size of our tax burden and whether or not we’re receiving good value for our tax dollars. This year, with the federal budget at $3.8 trillion, the budget deficit at $1.3 trillion, and with a host of new taxes taking effect on account of the health care law, we have more reason than ever to be concerned about the impact that tax and spending policies are having on our economy and our freedom. “In 2012, the American people will pay more in taxes than they will spend on food, clothing and shelter combined. According to the Tax Foundation, the average American will have to work for 134 days this year (or from January 1 to May 14) in order to pay his personal share of all federal government spending – whether through taxes or borrowing. “And if President Obama has his way, there will be no relief in sight. The President’s latest budget raises taxes by $2 trillion over the next 10 years. That is a recipe for economic disaster. “A better way to grow our economy is to cut taxes, reduce spending, and stop borrowing. By enacting pro-growth policies and restoring fiscal discipline, we can create jobs and keep the American Dream alive for the next generation.” Vice Chair McMorris Rodgers spoke about the contrasting philosophies of the House and Senate – the Senate trying to raise taxes; the House trying to lower them – at today’s Republican Leadership press conference. “The Senate Democrats have failed to answer the question, ‘How does raising taxes create a single job?,’” she said. To watch her remarks, click here.
04.16.2012	Members: ‘North Spokane Corridor is an Economic and Mobility Necessity for the Inland Northwest’ Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) joined U.S. Senators Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and Patty Murray (D-WA) today to urge the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) to support investment in the North Spokane Corridor, calling the project “a critical artery that will speed movement of vehicles and freight” around the Spokane metropolitan area. In a letter sent today to DOT, McMorris Rodgers, Cantwell and Murray expressed strong support for the Washington State Department of Transportation’s application for a TIGER IV (Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery) grant. The requested $18.9 million grant would allow the next phase of construction on the project to go forward. This phase includes relocating more than seven miles of rail, which would support Spokane-area private industry, construction of two new freeway crossings over the tracks, and bicycle and pedestrian improvements that stretch into the Hillyard neighborhood. A decision regarding the project’s application for a TIGER IV grant could come from DOT as early as May. “The North Spokane Corridor is an economic and mobility necessity for the Inland Northwest,” the members wrote in the letter sent today. “It completes a long-missing link in the region’s transportation system, provides new access to underdeveloped industrial and residential property, will reduce travel times, and speeds freight and other goods to market. We encourage you to approve Washington State Department of Transportation’s application for TIGER IV funding for US-395/North Spokane Corridor BNSF Railroad Structures/Realignment, and are proud to lend our support to this important regional priority.” Currently, all north-south traffic through Spokane moves on principle arterial streets. This means international freight traffic and passenger traffic share the roads with residents of local communities, leading to greater congestion, longer travel times, increased fuel usage, more greenhouse gas emissions, and reduced safety. Once completed, Spokane’s North-South Corridor will link I-90 on the south end with existing U.S. 2 and U.S. 395 on the north end. This will allow international, interstate and regional traffic to bypass neighborhoods in the Spokane metropolitan area. Improvements to the freight transportation system through Spokane will also assist the economies of Ferry, Stevens and Pend Oreille counties north of Spokane. According to the Washington State Department of Transportation, when completed, the project is expected to: Improve access to over 500 acres of industrial/commercial land and 329 acres of underutilized residential property in the Hillyard area Reduce travel time by 9.4 million hours per year at a value of $240 million per year Save $22 million annually in societal costs related to collision reduction Provide greater efficiency for 7.2 million tons of freight moving through the area valued at $13.5 million per year The complete text of the letter sent today follows: April 16, 2012 The Honorable Ray LaHood Secretary, U.S. Department of Transportation 1200 New Jersey Ave., SE Washington, DC 20590 Dear Secretary LaHood: We are writing to express our strong and united support for Washington State Department of Transportation’s Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) IV application for US-395/North Spokane Corridor BNSF Railroad Structures/Realignment. This critical project is the next phase towards completion of the North Spokane Corridor, a critical artery that will speed movement of vehicles and freight from I-90 north to US-395 and US-2. Originally conceived in 1946, the North Spokane Corridor will be a 60-mile per hour, 10.5 mile limited access highway that serves the more than 500,000 residents of the Inland Northwest. This new corridor will allow vehicles to bypass a route that now passes through 29 signalized intersections, resulting in travel time reductions valued at $240 million annually. The benefits will not just be seen by personal vehicles, but by freight traffic – the existing US-395 corridor carries over 7.2 million tons of freight (with a $13.5 billion value) annually through Spokane. The new North Spokane Corridor will take trucks off of local roads, improve efficiencies, and reduce delays – as well as support the development of the Inland Pacific Hub. This TIGER IV application will allow the next phase of the North Spokane Corridor to move forward with relocation of 7.5 miles of BNSF railroad mainline, switching and spur tracks which supports private industry, construction of two new freeway crossings over the tracks, and bicycle and pedestrian improvements that stretch into the Hillyard neighborhood. These improvements are essential as the project advances south towards the Spokane River and I-90. The North Spokane Corridor is an economic and mobility necessity for the Inland Northwest. It completes a long-missing link in the region’s transportation system, provides new access to underdeveloped industrial and residential property, will reduce travel times, and speeds freight and other goods to market. We encourage you to approve Washington State Department of Transportation’s application for TIGER IV funding for US-395/North Spokane Corridor BNSF Railroad Structures/Realignment, and are proud to lend our support to this important regional priority. Sincerely, Senator Maria Cantwell Senator Patty Murray Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers ###
04.16.2012	Washington, D.C.– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers, Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference and Co-Chair of the House Republican New Media Caucus, announced the kickoff of the 2012 New Media Challenge today. The New Media Challenge is designed to help Republican Members improve their online reach to constituents, while also spotlighting creative ways to stay more connected with their work in Congress. Initiated for the first time in 2010, and now in its third year running, the competition pits Republican Members head-to-head on social media, and is styled after NCAA’s March Madness basketball brackets. As of today, 95 Members have signed up to participate. Announcing the kickoff, Vice Chair McMorris Rodgers commented: “The New Media Challenge continues to push the House GOP to be more innovative in its online communications. Since undertaking the charge to get our Conference up-to-speed online in 2009, we’ve made great progress. But now is not the time to let up. A spirited competition goes a long way to breeding new creativity, and building on best practices.” In January 2009, only 30 percent of House Republicans were on YouTube, Facebook, and Twitter. Today, more than 85 percent of House Republicans are using these platforms. As Vice Chair, McMorris Rodgers spearheads a number of digital initiatives that set the course for House Republicans online. These include a robust blogger outreach program; email alerts highlighting emerging online trends & best practices; and a new media operations center that offers training & guidance to Members and staff based out of her Capitol office, called GOP Labs. The official rules can be found here for background purposes; brackets will be posted to Twitter after a qualification round concludes on Friday. Follow @CathyMcMorris for updates. ###
03.29.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today after the U.S. House passed the historic “Path to Prosperity” budget for Fiscal Year 2013: “I am proud to join my colleagues in passing a bold, fiscally-responsible budget that will create jobs, cut spending and reduce the deficit, while also protecting our seniors and the vulnerable.” The “Path to Prosperity,” also known as the “Ryan Plan,” will reduce tax rates, cut projected spending by $5 trillion, and cut projected deficits by $4 trillion over the next 10 years. “By cutting taxes and putting us on a path to fiscal sanity, the Ryan Plan will give small business owners the confidence they need to grow and create jobs again. The threat of a major debt crisis in the next few years is hurting our recovery today, and the best way to avoid this crisis – and bolster our economy – is to cut spending, not by raising taxes. Washington has a spending problem; not a revenue problem. And the Ryan Plan gets at the heart of our spending problem, while also saving Medicare and preserving the safety net. I strongly believe the Senate should pass it.” The Senate hasn’t passed a budget in more than 1,000 days.
03.29.2012	Washington, D.C. –Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, was honored today by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and presented with their Spirit of Enterprise Award for supporting legislation critical to the American business community during the first session of the 112th Congress. “I am proud to accept the Chamber’s Spirit of Enterprise Award,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is an outstanding leader for America’s job creators, and I’ve enjoyed working with them on shared priorities, including tax relief, removing harmful regulations, expanding free trade, and promoting common-sense health care reform.” “Over the past year, Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers has worked to protect and advance the interests of America’s job creators,” said Thomas J. Donahue, president and CEO of the U.S. Chamber. “By supporting pro-growth policies, Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers is helping unleash the power of free enterprise to put our economy back on track and put Americans back to work.” Eligibility for the Chamber’s Spirit of Enterprise Award is based on how Members of Congress vote on key business issues. According to their scorecard, Rep. McMorris Rodgers earned a 100% rating this year and collectively holds a 91% ranking during her tenure in Congress. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is the world’s largest business federation representing the interests of more than 3 million businesses of all sizes, sectors, and regions, as well as state and local chambers and industry associations.
03.28.2012	NOTE: Photos from today’s presser can be found here. To watch Rep. McMorris Rodgers’ remarks, click here. Washington, D.C. – With the Supreme Court engaged in an historic review of the controversial health care reform law, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, and nine other House Republican women Members, held a press conference today to highlight the negative impact of the health care law on American women. With Democrats continuing to advance the myth that Republicans are waging a “War on Women,” Vice Chair McMorris Rodgers and the other House Republican women demonstrated that what really scares American women are the President’s policies, particularly ObamaCare. “When the health care bill came before Congress two years ago, Republicans were united in opposing any takeover of America’s health care system, and today, nearly every poll finds that a strong majority of Americans want to repeal the law, and replace it with something better,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “One of the untold stories in this debate is that American womenalso oppose ObamaCare, and for good reason. Women make 85 percent of the health care decisions in this country. They also represent the vast majority of health care professionals. And they don’t like the idea of the federal government coming in and making the decisions they typically make – for themselves, for their families, and for their patients. “And so, as the Democrats keep talking about a ‘War on Women,’ the biggest reason they haven’t gained any traction on this issue – according to polls – is that it only reminds women about what they don’t like about ObamaCare. And as women look at this entire controversy more closely, what they see isn’t Republicans trying to undermine women’s health, it’s that Democrats are trying to scare American women. But what American women really find scary are the President’s policies. Republican women are going to continue to focus on the issues that truly matter to women and men – jobs, the economy, the national debt, and repealing ObamaCare.” In addition to Rep. McMorris Rodgers, the House Republican women attending today’s press conference were Rep. Sandy Adams (R-FL); Rep. Marsha Blackburn (R-TN); Rep. Ann Marie Buerkle (R-NY); Rep. Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV); Rep. Renee Ellmers (R-NC); Rep. Vicky Hartzler (R-MO); Rep. Cynthia Lummis (R-WY); Rep. Kristi Noem (R-SD); and Rep. Jean Schmidt (R-OH).
03.22.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement ahead of the two-year anniversary of the health care reform law: “During the 2010 health care debate, then-Speaker Pelosi famously said, ‘We have to pass the bill so you can find out what’s in it.’ Of course, we already knew what was in the bill, which is why I joined all of my Republican colleagues in voting against it. We all knew the bill would significantly increase premiums for working families, force tens of millions of Americans off their health care plans, raise taxes on small businesses, kill hundreds of thousands of jobs, and cut Medicare for seniors. We also knew the bill was too expensive and would increase the national debt at a time when the debt is already larger than our entire economy. This law is a disaster, and as we mark its two-year anniversary, it looks worse than ever. Keeping this law is unsustainable and improving it is insufficient. We must repeal and replace it. That is what the American people want, and that is what they deserve.” The health care bill was signed into law by President Obama on March 23, 2010 over the objection of the American people. On Jan. 19, 2011, Rep. McMorris Rodgers voted to repeal the health care law. She supports the House Republican budget for Fiscal Year 2013 which would defund the law.
03.22.2012	Washington, D.C.– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, voted to repeal the Obama Administration’s Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB) today. The vote – which passed the House overwhelmingly – marks an important step in saving Medicare and the long-term repeal of ObamaCare. “There’s nothing that threatens the future of Medicare more than the IPAB, and I’m pleased to join my colleagues today in voting to repeal it,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “The IPAB represents a broad and dangerous overreach of the federal government’s powers. Their mission to cut nearly $600 billion from Medicare will unnecessarily victimize doctors while threatening the quality of care for seniors. Further, the IPAB is just a band-aid for the true reforms that Congress needs to make to save Medicare for future retirees. We need to save Medicare, not destroy it. And today’s vote is an important milestone in doing exactly that.” The IPAB – a board run by fifteen unelected health care professionals – is a dangerous provision of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act that puts seniors’ treatment options in the hands of unelected bureaucrats. Today’s bill repealing IPAB – H.R. 5, the Protecting Access to Healthcare (PATH) Act – now moves to the Senate. On February 29, Rep. McMorris Rodgers, a member of the Health Subcommittee, joined a majority of her Subcommittee colleagues in approving legislation to repeal the IPAB. Her statement is below: “Mr. Chairman, I appreciate the opportunity to say a few words about this bill and the need for Congress to reclaim its role in determining the appropriate reforms to Medicare. “I don't think we have to look any further than two years ago to the United States Preventative Health Services Board and their recommendations on mammograms to see what government decisions do to our health care system. “Moreover, IPAB is just a band-aid for the true reforms that Congress needs to make to save Medicare for our future retirees. “We have to stop making doctors the victim of an unsustainable program – the only result will be even fewer doctors, decreased access and a lower quality of care. “I urge my colleagues to support this bill and yield back my time.”
03.21.2012	“It’s Time to Give America’s Small Business Owners Tax Breaks, Not Tax Burdens” Washington, D.C.– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, joined Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-VA) and other House GOP leaders at a press conference today to unveil the Small Business Tax Cut Act of 2012. This legislation, which is an extension of the recently released JOBS Act, will boost economic growth by allowing small businesses to deduct 20 percent of their income from taxes. This tax cut will benefit nearly 22 million small businesses. According to the Small Business Administration Office of Advocacy, small businesses represent 99.9 percent of the 27.5 million businesses in America and employ nearly half of all private sector employees. Additionally, small businesses with fewer than 500 employees generate nearly 65 percent of new jobs in this country. Despite their contributions to the domestic economy, they are currently burdened by government intervention and over-regulation. The Small Business Tax Cut Act of 2012 will enable small businesses to hire new employees and create jobs. Rep. McMorris Rodgers’s prepared remarks at today’s press conference are below. “When I was home in Eastern Washington last week, I had the opportunity to visit a pretty incredible local small business, Maid Naturally. It is owned and operated by two moms who had a business plan and executed it. And when I met with them, they told me that high taxes and government regulations are hindering their ability to expand. Just like these two business owners in Spokane, Washington, there are men and women all across America who face the same impediments when it comes to growing their businesses. “As someone who worked on my family-run small business for 13 years, I can say with certainty that they’re right. I’d like to shed some light on these women – the entrepreneurial women whose businesses are hurting because of this Administration’s regulatory burdens. It’s an important story because 2 out of every 3 new businesses are started by women – that’s 400 new businesses per day. In fact, women-owned businesses are the fastest-growing segment in the U.S. economy. And every dollar they save in taxes is one more dollar they can spend hiring a new employee. “The current path is both unacceptable and unsustainable for all of America’s small business owners. It’s time to change course. It’s time to give America’s small business owners tax breaks, not tax burdens. It’s time to give them relief, not rhetoric. And it’s time to give them the flexibility and freedom they need to create jobs. Now it’s time to move forward with legislation that will do just that.” ###
03.21.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Co-Chair of the bipartisan Congressional Down Syndrome Caucus (CDSC), celebrated World Down Syndrome Day (WSDS) today. On this day, Down syndrome organizations throughout the world organize and participate in events to raise public awareness of Down syndrome. Started in 2006, this is the first year WSDS is being recognized by the United Nations. The date of March 21 was selected by Down Syndrome International to signify the uniqueness of Down syndrome in the triplication (trisomy) of the 21st chromosome. “Five years ago, my husband, Brian and I were blessed with a beautiful baby boy, whose name is Cole, and he was born with that extra 21st chromosome” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers in a floor speech today. “Cole has given me a whole new perspective on being a mother and also a Member of Congress. Cole’s birth has given me a whole new purpose for serving in Congress, and her remind me every day of the significance and tremendous impact that every person has in this world…Today, on this special day, it’s my turn to help carry the baton and to help unleash the potential of all those living with disabilities.” To watch the Congresswoman’s floor speech, click here. At the CDSC Facebook page, there is a list of “21 Ways to Celebrate World Down Syndrome Day.” To read and share the list, click here.
03.20.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference and author of H.R. 2313, which would rescind a $100 billion line of credit to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), which is being used to bail out European countries, released the following statement today after Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner testified before the House Financial Services Committee on several issues, including the IMF and the “state of the international financial system”: “I appreciate the Administration’s stated concern about what is going on in Europe. However, Secretary Geithner was unconvincing in his remarks about America’s role in the European bailouts, including the most recent bailout of Greece announced last week. With the Administration’s support, the IMF – of which the U.S. is the largest contributor – has already committed tens of billions of dollars to Greece, a country which is technically in default. As Representative Neugebauer noted today, U.S. money at the IMF is ‘safe’ in the same way that U.S. money at Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac was ‘safe’ before the 2008 financial crisis. By continuing to dismiss the riskiness of these loans – including his own Department’s estimate of a $5 billion loss at the IMF – Secretary Geithner failed to reassure Congress, and more importantly, the American people, that our tax money is safe.” In addition, Secretary Geithner was asked today if he would seek Congressional approval before rolling in the $100 billion line of credit (known as the “New Arrangements to Borrow”) to fulfill his commitment to double America’s quota at the IMF. The Secretary replied, “Yes, we will.” On March 6, Rep. McMorris Rodgers sent a letter to Secretary Geithner insisting that he would need to come back to Congress before taking this action. H.R. 2313 has 93 cosponsors. A compilation of the Congresswoman’s work on this issue can be found here.
03.20.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, defended House Republicans from the liberal myth that the Republican Party has declared a “War on Women,” at today’s Republican Leadership press conference. Rep. McMorris Rodgers, the highest-ranking Republican woman in Congress, noted that a recent CBS News/New York Times poll found that a majority of American women (53 percent) support the Republican position on the “conscience clause” and that President Obama’s approval rating among women is at an all-time low (41 percent). “What American women really find scary is the President’s policies,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. A transcript of her remarks is below. To watch the video, click here. “Over the last few weeks – as the House Republicans have been focusing on the economy and jobs – the Democrats have been trying to change the subject, and they’ve been trying to distract America from the real issues. “They call it a ‘War on Women.’ And as a woman, I’m here to tell you the Democrats are off-base. And the polls back us up. A CBS News poll recently showed that a majority of American women support the Republican position on the ‘conscience clause.’ President Obama’s approval rating is actually at a record low – 41 percent – with women right now. “And as Americans look deeper at these issues, what they see isn’t Republicans trying to undermine women’s health; what they see is the Democrats trying to scare American women. And it’s a scare tactic that isn’t going to work. What American women fear most of all is President Obama’s policies. They fear his economic policies. They fear his health care policies. And they fear the debt he is leaving to our children and our grandchildren. “Republicans are going to continue to focus on the real issues. Those are the issues that American women care about. And those are the issues that Americans care about.”
03.20.2012	Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today after Rep. Paul Ryan, Chairman of the House Budget Committee, unveiled the House Republican budget for Fiscal Year 2013. “I applaud Chairman Ryan for his bold, fiscally-responsible budget that will create jobs, protect taxpayers, and protect our most vulnerable – especially our seniors – while putting us on track to balance the budget once and for all. I am eager to work with Chairman Ryan and our House Republican colleagues to pass this budget, save Medicare, and keep the American Dream alive for the next generation.” The Ryan Plan, coined the “Path to Prosperity,” will reduce tax rates, cut projected government spending by $5 trillion, and cut projected deficits by $4 trillion over the next 10 years. “At a time when our debt is larger than our entire economy, and is projected to nearly double over the next decade, we need to get our debt under control, and we need to do it urgently. Otherwise, we will face a Greek-like debt crisis in the next few years. The best way to do avoid this crisis is to cut government spending. Let’s remember, Washington doesn’t have a revenue problem; it has a spending problem. And the Ryan Plan gets at the heart of our spending addiction, while protecting our most vulnerable. Furthermore, it will bolster our economy by giving small business owners the confidence they need to grow and create jobs again.” To learn more about the “Path to Prosperity,” read Chairman Ryan’s op-ed in today’s Wall Street Journal, which can be found here.
03.13.2012	Cupertino, CA – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Caucus and Co-Chair of the Republican New Media Caucus, participated in a series of successful meetings in Silicon Valley on Monday. As a strong advocate for the advancement of technological innovation on Capitol Hill, Rep. McMorris Rodgers met with CEOs and government affairs officials at Genentech, TechAmerica, Microsoft, Facebook and Apple. “I’m thrilled to have spent the day in Silicon Valley – the epicenter of technological innovation and entrepreneurship – to meet with some of America’s finest leaders in the technology industry,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “As Vice Chair, one of my key leadership initiatives is to harness new media and technology – and to make Congress more efficient, transparent and connected to the American people. Today’s meetings provided a phenomenal opportunity to advance that goal.” As one of Congress’s most active and vocal leaders on the new media front, Rep. McMorris Rodgers launched a project called “GOP Labs” last year. This initiative – aimed to facilitate the growth of new media and technology – has bolstered House Republican engagement with the American people. To learn more about the Republican New Media Caucus, click here. To follow GOP Labs on Facebook, click here. Photo: Rep. McMorris Rodgers at Microsoft’s Silicon Valley campus. ###
03.12.2012	San Francisco, CA – With the International Monetary Fund (IMF) Executive Board scheduled to meet on Thursday to consider a $37 billion loan to Greece as part of the latest $171 billion bailout of that country, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, called on the Obama Administration today to protect U.S. taxpayer dollars and vote “no” on the agreement. The U.S. has the power to call for a vote at the IMF Executive Board, and all decisions put to a vote require a majority to pass. The U.S. is the largest contributor to the IMF, with $165 billion at stake. The total cost of the Greek bailouts has been estimated at $500 billion. “At this point, it should be clear that America and the IMF are throwing good money after bad, and the only real solution is for Greece and the European Union to stop their borrowing addiction, instead of papering it over,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers.” In a letter to Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner last week, she noted that when the Greek bailouts began in May 2010, Greece’s debt-to-GDP ratio was 113 percent. Today, it’s 159 percent. And Greece continues to run enormous deficits. “There should be no deficits in Greece,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “There is no way for Greece to start reducing its debt burden until those deficits stop. It’s just simple math. Of course, that’s equally true for America. We’re not that far behind. Which is why we must start getting serious about protecting U.S. tax dollars and ending the ‘too big to fail to fail’ philosophy. The only thing ‘too big to fail’ is America itself.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers is the author of HR 2313, which would rescind a $100 billion line of credit to the IMF (created in 2009, and known as the “New Arrangements to Borrow”), and which is being tapped for the European bailouts. The bill has 92 cosponsors. A compilation of the Congresswoman’s work on this issue can be found here.
03.09.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today after it was announced that the national unemployment rate held steady at 8.3 percent last month: “While there is some encouraging news in this report, the fact remains that we are still stuck in the slowest economic recovery since the Great Depression, due in large part to the President’s ‘spend, borrow, and bailout’ policies which have stunted job creation in the private sector. House Republicans have shown leadership by passing over 30 jobs bills, but the Senate refuses to consider nearly all of them. There are definitely opportunities for bipartisan cooperation – as we saw with yesterday’s overwhelming passage of the JOBS Act – but we continue to wait for the Senate Democrats and the Administration to meet us halfway. I will continue to advocate for pro-growth, pro-free market solutions to spark job creation, innovation, and opportunity.” On Thursday, the Congressional Budget Office reported that the federal budget deficit in February was $229 billion – the highest monthly figure ever. “There cannot be a true, sustainable economic recovery until we get our fiscal house in order,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers.
03.08.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, praised House passage of H.R. 3606, the Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act today, which is bipartisan legislation that will jumpstart economic growth and restore opportunities to America’s job creators. “I applaud the vote that took place on the House floor today,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “It’s a vote for hardworking Americans, a vote for small business owners, and a vote to unleash opportunity and ingenuity in this country. Small businesses are the key to economic success – and right now, lack of credit opportunities, uncertainty and burdensome regulations are hurting entrepreneurs in Eastern Washington and all across the country. This bill will change that. It will spur the growth of startups and small businesses and pave the way for job creation at a time when our country needs it most.” The JOBS Act, which is part of the House Republicans’ Plan for America’s Job Creators, includes bipartisan measures that will increase capital formation, grow small businesses, and enable more small businesses to go public and create jobs. It will eliminate the very regulations that continue to stymie economic growth and job creation. “As someone who helped operate my family-owned business in Kettle Falls, Washington for over a decade, I can say with certainty that this bill will expand opportunities for America’s job creators. I encourage the Senate to act quickly and pass this legislation. It will make it easier for small business owners all across this country to create jobs and significantly reduce the bureaucratic burdens they currently face. We must do everything we can to create jobs for hardworking American families. Our time to act is now. We cannot wait.” To read more about the JOBS Act, click here.
03.07.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and Rep. Donna Edwards (D-MD), Co-Chairs of the Afghan Women’s Task Force, received the “Internationalism Award” from the American Women for International Understanding (AWIU) last night. The Congresswomen were honored for their exceptional leadership on behalf of Afghan women, and received the award at AWIU’s “International Women of Courage” celebration. “I am honored to share this award with my friend, Donna Edwards, and I deeply appreciate AWIU’s leadership in the fight for women’s rights,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “The cause of Afghan women is very close to my heart, and my commitment has been emboldened tonight.” The “Internationalism Award” award is presented to individuals who have addressed concerns facing women worldwide. According to AWIU, recipients have exhibited international support for women’s issues and contributed to world understanding, raised awareness of global concerns and fostered cross-cultural dialogue. Reps. McMorris Rodgers and Edwards co-founded the bipartisan Afghan Women’s Task Force in June 2011. The organization is dedicated to the advancement of women’s rights in Afghanistan and the promotion of mentoring programs for Afghanistan’s female elected officials and business leaders. “We in America must continue to speak for those who – as recently as a decade ago – could not speak for themselves,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers last night. “We must continue to act preemptively and intelligently so this fragile moment of women’s rights and women’s opportunity in Afghanistan is not lost forever. And we must stand united – as women, for women – to ensure that the twenty-first century is a century of women’s rights for women all around the world.” To learn more about the Afghan Women’s Task Force, visit its Facebook page here. To learn more about American Women for International Understanding (AWIU), visit their website here.
03.07.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, sent a letter to Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner yesterday expressing concern about the Administration’s policies toward the International Monetary Fund (IMF), and America’s growing involvement through the IMF in the European bailouts. In her letter, Rep. McMorris Rodgers warns Secretary Geithner that federal law requires that any decision on his part to use the $100 billion line of credit to the IMF (known as the “New Arrangements to Borrow”) to fulfill the Administration’s commitment to double America’s quota at the IMF must first be approved by Congress. Secretary Geithner made this commitment to the IMF in 2010, and pledged to fulfill it by September 2012. This is the latest in the Congresswoman’s efforts to stop U.S. participation in the European bailouts, which has taken on a new sense of urgency as the NAB continues to be used for that purpose. She is the author of HR 2313, which would rescind any unused portion of the NAB and earmark it for deficit reduction. The bill has 92 cosponsors. The text of the letter is below. To learn more about the Congresswoman’s efforts, click here. March 6, 2012 The Honorable Timothy F. Geithner Secretary United States Department of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20220 Dear Secretary Geithner: I am writing as a follow up to the G-20 meeting held two weeks ago and the statements made by IMF Managing Director Christine LaGarde regarding the IMF’s future lending capacity. Director LaGarde emphasized the continued fragility of the European economy and reiterated the need to increase the IMF’s lending capacity by $500 billion. Specifically, she encouraged IMF members to ratify the quota reforms approved in 2010 by members of the G-20, including the United States, which in the case of the United States would result in a doubling of our quota contribution from $65 billion to $130 billion. There are many issues related to the United States’ participation in the IMF’s lending arrangements that give me cause for concern, not the least of which includes increasing the United States’ quota contribution. 22 U.S.C. 286(c) of the Bretton Woods Agreement Act makes clear that any quota increase must first be approved by Congress. This approval includes any attempt to shift or reclassify current lending resources, such as the $100 billion new arrangements to borrow (NAB) program expanded in 2009, in order to meet the United States’ new obligation. As the IMF’s largest contributor, the United States has an obligation to ensure that the lending arrangements involving the United States reflect the appropriate risk involved in the transaction. Each new report raises questions about the United States’ role, including what is the United States exposure, in each of these lending packages? Take for example Greece. At the time of the first IMF loan arrangement to Greece, its debt to GDP ratio was 113 percent. Today, it’s 159 percent. The recent downgrade of Greece’s status to default and the uncertain support to the reforms agreed to last December by members of the EU, as recently announced by Ireland, are reminders of the risk that is inherent in the IMF’s lending arrangements, particularly among vulnerable members of the European Union As most world leaders now recognize, implementing excessive borrowing and spending policies don’t work. Nor do bailouts. I worry that the size of the IMF’s loans and the difficulty of ensuring adequate reform among countries participating in the IMF’s lending arrangements only increases the risk of default. I believe it is only prudent that before the United States commit to any additional IMF contributions, including through the NAB, that the Treasury Department publically reassure Congress and the American people that it will abide by federal law and not use the NAB to double our IMF quota. I look forward to receiving a more complete explanation of the Administration’s policy at the IMF to date, including specific contributions made from our quota and the NAB, and where you see the policy moving forward. Sincerely, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers
03.05.2012	Spokane, WA – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) released the following statement today after her delegation colleague, Rep. Norm Dicks (D-WA) announced his retirement: “The Dean of our Washington delegation for many years, Norm will leave Congress with many achievements and a powerful legacy. I’ve enjoyed working with him in a bipartisan way on many issues, especially those involving our military, veterans, and Fairchild Air Force Base. I wish Norm and Suzie all the best and again congratulate Norm on his many successful years serving in the House." Rep. Dicks represents Washington’s Sixth District and is the Ranking Democrat on the House Appropriations Committee. He is serving his 18th term.
02.29.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, voted to repeal the Obama Administration’s Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB) at a Health Subcommittee markup today. The vote – which passed with overwhelming bipartisan support – marks an important step in the protection of Medicare and the long-term repeal of ObamaCare. “It is time for Congress to reclaim its role in determining the appropriate reforms to Medicare,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers in her opening statement. “The President’s health care law cut nearly $600 billion from Medicare to pay for this new entitlement – and there’s absolutely no way we can pay for it. We have to stop making doctors the victim of an unsustainable program. The only result will be even fewer doctors, decreased access, and a lower quality of care. The IPAB represents the broad and perilous overreach of government-run health care.” The Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB) – a board run by fifteen unelected health care professionals – is a dangerous provision of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act that jeopardizes Medicare and puts seniors’ treatment options in the hands of unelected bureaucrats. The Health Subcommittee will send this bill to the full Energy and Commerce Committee for a vote next week. “There’s nothing that threatens the future of Medicare more than the IPAB. Today’s subcommittee markup highlighted the need for real reform. We need to change course. We need to protect and reform Medicare, not destroy it. And today’s vote was the first step toward doing exactly that.” ### Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, voted to repeal the Obama Administration’s Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB) at a Health Subcommittee markup today. The vote – which passed with overwhelming bipartisan support – marks an important step in the protection of Medicare and the long-term repeal of ObamaCare. “It is time for Congress to reclaim its role in determining the appropriate reforms to Medicare,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers in her opening statement. “The President’s health care law cut nearly $600 billion from Medicare to pay for this new entitlement – and there’s absolutely no way we can pay for it. We have to stop making doctors the victim of an unsustainable program. The only result will be even fewer doctors, decreased access, and a lower quality of care. The IPAB represents the broad and perilous overreach of government-run health care.” The Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB) – a board run by fifteen unelected health care professionals – is a dangerous provision of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act that jeopardizes Medicare and puts seniors’ treatment options in the hands of unelected bureaucrats. The Health Subcommittee will send this bill to the full Energy and Commerce Committee for a vote next week. “There’s nothing that threatens the future of Medicare more than the IPAB. Today’s subcommittee markup highlighted the need for real reform. We need to change course. We need to protect and reform Medicare, not destroy it. And today’s vote was the first step toward doing exactly that.” ### Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, voted to repeal the Obama Administration’s Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB) at a Health Subcommittee markup today. The vote – which passed with overwhelming bipartisan support – marks an important step in the protection of Medicare and the long-term repeal of ObamaCare. “It is time for Congress to reclaim its role in determining the appropriate reforms to Medicare,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers in her opening statement. “The President’s health care law cut nearly $600 billion from Medicare to pay for this new entitlement – and there’s absolutely no way we can pay for it. We have to stop making doctors the victim of an unsustainable program. The only result will be even fewer doctors, decreased access, and a lower quality of care. The IPAB represents the broad and perilous overreach of government-run health care.” The Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB) – a board run by fifteen unelected health care professionals – is a dangerous provision of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act that jeopardizes Medicare and puts seniors’ treatment options in the hands of unelected bureaucrats. The Health Subcommittee will send this bill to the full Energy and Commerce Committee for a vote next week. “There’s nothing that threatens the future of Medicare more than the IPAB. Today’s subcommittee markup highlighted the need for real reform. We need to change course. We need to protect and reform Medicare, not destroy it. And today’s vote was the first step toward doing exactly that.” ### “We Must Protect Medicare, Not Destroy It” Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, voted to repeal the Obama Administration’s Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB) at a Health Subcommittee markup today. The vote – which passed with overwhelming bipartisan support – marks an important step in the protection of Medicare and the long-term repeal of ObamaCare. “It is time for Congress to reclaim its role in determining the appropriate reforms to Medicare,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers in her opening statement. “The President’s health care law cut nearly $600 billion from Medicare to pay for this new entitlement – and there’s absolutely no way we can pay for it. We have to stop making doctors the victim of an unsustainable program. The only result will be even fewer doctors, decreased access, and a lower quality of care. The IPAB represents the broad and perilous overreach of government-run health care.” The Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB) – a board run by fifteen unelected health care professionals – is a dangerous provision of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act that jeopardizes Medicare and puts seniors’ treatment options in the hands of unelected bureaucrats. The Health Subcommittee will send this bill to the full Energy and Commerce Committee for a vote next week. “There’s nothing that threatens the future of Medicare more than the IPAB. Today’s subcommittee markup highlighted the need forreal reform. We need to change course. We need to protect and reform Medicare, not destroy it. And today’s vote was the first step toward doing exactly that.” ###
02.24.2012	Spokane, WA- Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) applauded this week’s announcement by the Washington State Department of Transportation (WSDOT) that they are submitting a Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) IV grant application for the North Spokane Freeway. Rep. McMorris Rodgers is a strong champion of the Freeway, which, once completed, would connect trade routes throughout Eastern Washington, the region, and Canada, helping farmers and small business owners transport their goods and commodities throughout North America. “The North Spokane Freeway has been – and continues to be – an effective multimodal transportation system that has the potential to create thousands of jobs and bring hundreds of millions of dollars in new tax revenue to our community,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “That’s why I applaud WSDOT’s decision to submit a TIGER IV grant application for the Freeway. This is a big breakthrough in our efforts at the state, local, and federal levels to complete this truly ‘shovel-ready’ project and boost Eastern Washington’s economy.” On Wednesday, Rep. McMorris Rodgers met with Gov. Christine Gregoire, Transportation Secretary Paula Hammond, and state legislators to advocate for the Freeway and other Eastern Washington transportation projects.
02.22.2012	Olympia, WA- Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) met with Gov. Christine Gregoire, Transportation Secretary Paula Hammond, and state legislators in Olympia today as part of her efforts to help complete the North Spokane Freeway and advance other Eastern Washington priorities. The Congresswoman is coordinating with state, local, and federal leaders to promote funding for the Freeway – a multi-generational project that will connect trade routes throughout Eastern Washington, the region, and Canada, helping farmers and small business owners transport their goods and commodities throughout North America. “I appreciate Governor Gregoire and Secretary Hammond for taking the time to meet with me today to talk about the North Spokane Freeway and other Eastern Washington transportation projects,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “The North Spokane Freeway is an effective multimodal transportation system that has the potential to create thousands of jobs and bring hundreds of millions of dollars in new tax revenue to our community. The state government has taken the lead in funding the Freeway, but the federal government has a role to play, as well. And by working together at the state, local, and federal levels, I know we can earn enough support to get it completed. Today’s meetings were an important step in doing exactly that.” On January 26, 2012, Rep. McMorris Rodgers hosted a meeting of regional stakeholders to develop plans to complete the Freeway. The Congresswoman also held meetings today with Senate Minority Leader Mike Hewitt, House Minority Leader Richard DeBolt, and the House and Senate Republican Caucuses. She updated them on transportation and other issues she’s working on that directly affect Washington State – including bringing the new tankers to Fairchild Air Force Base, bringing a medical school to Spokane, and expanding hydropower production.
02.22.2012	Fairchild AFB, WA- Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) toured Fairchild Air Force Base on Tuesday as part of her efforts to make sure the new KC-46A tankers are stationed here. The tour was led by Col. Paul Guemmer, Commander of the 92nd Air Refueling Wing at Fairchild. “I was delighted to come back to Fairchild and meet with Col. Guemmer, the Fairchild leadership team, and our brave servicemen and women. We had productive discussions about how we can protect and expand Fairchild’s mission, including making sure the new tankers are stationed here,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. Last month, Rep. McMorris Rodgers hosted a meeting of the “Forward Fairchild” team to initiate a six-month strategy to bring the new tankers to Fairchild. The Air Force’s Air Mobility Command is in the process of putting together its strategic base criteria for the tankers. They are expected to submit the criteria for approval in March. Then, the Air Force will begin an enterprise-wide review of potential base candidates and make recommendations to the Secretary later this spring/early June. Fairchild is one of the leading candidates to bed the tankers. “Whether you’re considering the age of Fairchild’s current tankers or the base’s proximity to Asia, or whether you’re considering the high quality of Fairchild’s leadership or the courage of its service members and their families, no base in the entire country is better qualified to serve as the first home of the new tankers than Fairchild,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. In April, Rep. McMorris Rodgers will lead the “Forward Fairchild” team to the Pentagon to meet with the Secretary of the Air Force and other high-ranking military officials to discuss the importance of Fairchild and the new tankers and possible new missions. Fairchild AFB is the largest employer in Eastern Washington.
02.21.2012	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Delivering the Weekly Republican Address, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, called the budget President Obama unveiled this week a “roadmap to Greece.” The highest-ranking Republican woman in Congress drew attention to the fact that President Obama broke his promise to cut the deficit in half and noted that House Republicans, as part of their Plan for America’s Job Creators, are offering a pro-growth budget that lifts the crushing burden of debt and creates a better environment for private-sector job creation. “Hello, I’m Cathy McMorris Rodgers, and I have the honor of representing the hardworking taxpayers of Eastern Washington. I’m also a mother of two young kids, Cole and Grace, and like millions of other moms across America, I’m concerned about our children’s future, and the economy they’ll inherit. “On February 23, 2009, during a fiscal responsibility summit at the White House, President Obama made a promise to the American people. ‘I’m pledging,’ he said, ‘to cut the deficit we inherited by half by the end of my first term in office.’ “Well, in the budget he submitted this week to Congress, the president admitted he won’t keep his promise. He won’t even come close. Because of the president’s failure to control spending, the government will run trillion-dollar deficits in each of his four years in office. “President Obama’s broken promises have left our country broke. On his watch, the size of our debt has surpassed the size of our entire economy – making it harder for small businesses to create jobs and pushing us closer to a fiscal crisis. “I’m afraid his budget is even worse than it looks. More than half of the proposed ‘savings’ in the president’s budget for the next year – about $2 trillion – are already law. These savings come from the Budget Control Act – the bill congressional Republicans insisted that the president sign last year in response to his demand for an increase in the nation’s debt limit. The president spent nearly six months last year resisting those spending reductions, until he finally listened to the people. Another almost $1 trillion in ‘savings’ comes from what we call the ‘war gimmick’ – money that was never requested and will never be spent on wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Those aren’t real savings. Do the math and you’ll discover that the president’s budget only achieves, at most, about a tenth of the savings it promises. This kind of accounting would sink any business or household. “It isn’t all that surprising, however, when you consider that a lot of what President Obama promised about the economy has turned out to be untrue. “Friday marked the three-year anniversary of the infamous ‘stimulus’ spending bill. The president’s team said the unemployment rate would stay below eight percent if taxpayers gave his party a blank check to spend on government programs, but that promise didn’t pan out either. In fact, unemployment has been above eight percent for three years running. Gas prices have nearly doubled since the president took office. And the new health care law is making it harder for small businesses to hire new workers and provide insurance for their employees. “You see, the president and his party have it all wrong. They believe they can grow the economy and create jobs by increasing government spending and raising taxes, including taxes on small businesses. But the American people know that the way to grow the economy and create jobs is by cutting government spending and keeping taxes low for all taxpayers. “Unfortunately, the president’s budget continues on this wrong path. Instead of leading the effort to bring down our debt and make tough choices, the president is proposing that we spend more and more. All his wasteful spending puts us deeper in debt to China. All his tax hikes would destroy jobs and make it tougher to compete with China. “If we keep on going like this, the consequences will be devastating. As we’ve learned from Greece and the European Union, no country can escape the costs of big government policies forever. The president’s budget isn’t a blueprint for America – it’s a roadmap to Greece. “It didn’t have to be this way. The president and his party have been given numerous opportunities to rein in spending and help create a better environment for job creation, and they’ve punted almost every time. The president’s Democratic colleagues in the Senate haven’t produced a budget in nearly three years. That’s like writing checks all year long without balancing your checkbook. They wouldn’t even accept spending cuts to go along with the payroll tax holiday extension agreed to by Republicans and Democrats this week – spending cuts that came mostly from the president’s own proposals. “And now, after breaking his promise to cut the deficit in half, the president can’t even offer a credible budget. That just isn’t leadership. “The American people deserve better. My children and yours – who will inherit this debt – deserve much better. This spring, Republicans will again offer a pro-growth budget that lifts the crushing burden of debt and secures a future of opportunity and prosperity. This budget is part of Republicans’ Plan for America’s Job Creators, which removes government barriers to private-sector job creation – a stark contrast to the president’s failed ‘stimulus’ approach. Learn more about the Republican jobs plan by visiting jobs.GOP.gov. “Thank you for listening, and God bless America.” Transcript | Download Audio | YouTube | Download Video
02.17.2012	Anniversary Highlights Fundamental Difference Between President’s “Solyndra Economy” & GOP’s “Keystone Economy” Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, and other House Republican leaders held a press conference today marking the three-year anniversary of President Obama’s failed $787 billion stimulus bill. The leaders launched a new House republican theme – the “Solyndra Economy” versus the “Keystone Economy” – specifically how President Obama’s government-run policies have failed, while the House Republicans’ focus on the private sector will succeed. “The Administration promised Congress – and the American people – that if the stimulus bill passed, the unemployment rate would not exceed 8 percent,” said Vice Chair McMorris Rodgers. “Well, the unemployment rate did exceed 8 percent two months later, and it’s been over 8 percent for 36 straight months. The stimulus clearly failed. In fact, it made things worse. “The most famous example of failed stimulus spending is Solyndra – a failed green energy company which received $500 million from taxpayers and then went bankrupt. Meanwhile, the President recently killed the Keystone project – a project that has bipartisan support, would create tens of thousands of jobs, and reduce our dangerous dependence on Mideast oil. And so what we have here is a fundamental difference between the President’s ‘Solyndra Economy’ – in which the President uses your tax money to reward the special interests, and the House Republican’s ‘Keystone Economy,’ in which the private sector is in charge, creating jobs and leading innovation, and government – for the most part – just gets out of the way.” Vice Chair McMorris Rodgers hosted today’s press conference. Other members who attended were Rep. Lee Terry (R-NE), Rep. Diane Black (R-TN), Rep. Ann Marie Buerkle (R-NY), Rep. Tim Griffin (R-AR), Rep. Morgan Griffith (R-VA), and Rep. Todd Young (R-IN). “Now is the time to pick the ‘Keystone Economy’ over the ‘Solyndra Economy,’ to pick the American people over Big Government, and to pick prosperity over stagnation,” said Vice Chair McMorris Rodgers.
02.15.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Co-Chair of the bipartisan Congressional Military Family Caucus, met with First Lady Michelle Obama, Defense Secretary Leon Panetta, General Martin Dempsey, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and other high-ranking officials at the Pentagon today for an event focused on military spouse employment. The event highlighted a new report by the Defense Department and Department of Treasury outlining opportunities and best practices for states to better support military spouses serving in professions with state licensure requirements. “I applaud Mrs. Obama, Secretary Panetta, and General Dempsey for their leadership on this very important issue,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “We recognize that when a service member joins the military, it’s not just a job; it’s a family commitment to our country. When a service member rotates to a different military installation, their spouse has to find a new job – often with new state credentialing requirements. Given these tough times, it’s not hard to imagine how great this burden is. That’s why I’m so excited by today’s meeting. By implementing this new report, we will improve the employment situation for military spouses and, thereby, honor the sacrifices that America’s heroes – those on the frontlines and those at home – make every single day.” Today, the Defense Department and Department of Treasury jointly releasedSupporting Our Military Families: Best Practices for Streamlining Occupational Licensing Across State Lines. This report details nearly 50 commitments from Cabinet agencies to reform, strengthen, and better coordinate the federal government’s support for military families. Today’s event will help implement those commitments. Rep. McMorris Rodgers, whose husband, Brian, is a retired Navy pilot, co-founded the Congressional Military Family Caucus in 2009. The CMFC is a bipartisan educational forum for Members of Congress and their staff on military family topics. First Lady Michelle Obama leads the White House’s Joining Forces initiative, which addresses the unique challenges and needs of military families.
02.13.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today after President Obama unveiled his budget request for Fiscal Year 2013, which would raise taxes, increase government spending, and add $11 trillion to the national debt over the next decade: “The President’s budget taxes too much, spends too much, and borrows too much. As we’ve seen over the last three years, that is a recipe for economic stagnation. And if we continue down this path, the economic consequences will be devastating. As we’ve learned from Greece and the European Union, no country can escape the consequences of Big Government policies forever. That’s why the President’s budget is a ‘Roadmap to Greece.’ The American people deserve better. And our children, in particular – who will inherit this debt – deserve better. Under President Obama’s budget, the federal government will spend $3.8 trillion in FY 2013, while running a $1.3 trillion deficit. Over the next 10 years, his budget would raise taxes by $1.9 trillion, while increasing the total national debt from $15 trillion to $26 trillion. The President’s budget also threatens seniors because it does not make any fundamental changes to America’s entitlement programs. Those programs are growing in cost, threatening their viability. “To grow our economy, keep the American Dream alive, and protect our seniors, I support the Ryan Plan,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “This bold, forward-looking proposal would reduce taxes, cut government spending by $6 trillion over the next decade, and put us on a path to balance the budget once and for all.” According to Standard & Poor’s, if the President had signed the Ryan budget last year, the federal government would have avoided its embarrassing credit downgrade. Rep. McMorris Rodgers is also a strong supporter of the Balanced Budget Amendment.
02.06.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) announced the appointment of Dick Leland as District Director today. Mr. Leland is a well-respected attorney in Spokane with his own practice focusing on family law, estate planning, business law, and general litigation. Prior to practicing law, Mr. Leland worked for 10 years with the Farm Credit System. “Dick is well respected in our community and I am delighted he is joining my team,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “His strong commitment to Eastern Washington will help me better serve our families back home, and he will hit the ground running.” Mr. Leland will manage the district staff and constituent services. Rep. McMorris Rodgers maintains offices in Spokane, Colville, and Walla Walla. Mr. Leland will be based in the Spokane office. “I am honored to be working with Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers, and I look forward to bringing superior service to the people of Eastern Washington,” said Mr. Leland. Mr. Leland is replacing David Condon, who took a leave of absence in May 2011. Mr. Leland is very active in the Spokane community, serving as a basketball and baseball coach, Sunday school teacher, and an officer with Toastmasters International. He is married to Patty Leland. They have two children.
02.03.2012	House Passes Conference Report in Major Boost to INHS Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) proudly voted for the FAA Conference report today. The report included a provision authorizing tax exempt bonding for fixed wing aircraft. This is a major victory for the Inland Northwest Health Services (INHS) which runs Northwest MedStar – a critical care transport system that transports thousands of patients every year in Eastern Washington and surrounding regions. Rep. McMorris Rodgers wrote a letter to the House Ways and Means Committee encouraging them to include the provision. The U.S. House approved the FAA Conference Report, sending it to the Senate. “This is a big victory for INHS and Eastern Washington,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “I know firsthand the difficulty that our rural communities face when it comes to making emergency health care services available. While helicopters can be used to provide air ambulance services, airplanes are widely considered to be a superior mode of emergency air transportation, particularly for our critically ill patients in rural communities. Yet, until today, our tax code did not reflect this need. I appreciate Chairman Camp and the Ways and Means Committee for fixing this discrepancy in our tax code and I look forward to it becoming the law of the land.”
02.03.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, joined a House Republican Leadership press conference about today’s unemployment report. A transcript of her remarks is below. To watch the video, click here. “It was three years ago this month that President Obama came to Congress and said, ‘You must pass my stimulus package.’ It was a $787 billion spending program, and at that time, he promised Congress that if you pass this plan, unemployment will not exceed 8 percent. “Well, this is the thirty-sixth month in a row that 8 percent has been exceeded. And yet, it didn’t have to be this way. There is a different approach that we could have taken, and Bill [Flores] pointed to it. President Reagan took a very different approach. He took an approach that was focused on pro-growth, free-market solutions. And I think it’s important to remember that President Reagan actually had a more difficult, deeper recession. Unemployment was higher, inflation was rampant, and yet he took an approach that, in the third year of his term resulted in the economy booming again. “President Obama has taken the approach of borrowing and spending, and those are policies that have failed. And if anything, they’ve make things worse. House Republicans stand here today looking forward to a pro-growth agenda – a jobs package that would actually get people back to work.” The national unemployment rate is 8.3 percent.
02.02.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) applauded today’s decision by the U.S. Forest Service (USFS) to recognize the Colville National Forest (CNF) by providing $968,000 in funding for the CNF’s restoration efforts. For years, the CNF has led the nation as a model for successful forest collaborations, but until today, federal funding has been elusive. As a result, disease and bug infestation have plagued the forest and infrastructure has not kept pace with viable working levels. Rep. McMorris Rodgers has been a strong supporter of the CNF’s management program and a champion for federal funding. “This is great news for the Colville community and a testament to CNF’s excellent management program,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “The Northeast Washington Forestry Coalition, in particular, has been indispensable in our efforts to protect and improve the forest. I’ve been proud to work with them and other regional leaders, and through collaboration and teamwork, we’ve achieved remarkable success. Now with the Forest Service’s decision, we can build on that success.” The CNF covers 1.1 million acres in Eastern Washington. First recognized as a Model/Proof of Concept Forest in 2008, the CNF has consistently earned the respect of foresters across the nation. In recent years, the CNF has been selected among the top forests for consideration in the Collaborative Forest Landscape Restoration Program (CFLRP). Rep. McMorris Rodgers has written several letters to federal officials urging CNF’s participation in CFLRP. The most recent letter was sent in December 2011. The USFS decided today to fund three projects that were CFLRA-worthy out of its own budget. CNF was one of them. “I appreciate the Forest Service stepping up on behalf of the people of Eastern Washington,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “This definitely builds confidence going forward.”
02.01.2012	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and Rep. Mike Thompson (D-CA), Co-Chairs of the Congressional Rural Health Coalition, introduced H.R. 3859, The Rural Hospital and Provider Equity (R-HOPE) Act of 2012 today. This bipartisan bill would help rural communities in Eastern Washington and across America protect and expand access to high-quality health care. “As someone who grew up on a family farm, I know that rural communities have unique needs – particularly when it comes to accessing quality health care,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “The numbers speak for themselves: There are 75 million Americans who live in rural areas (about 25 percent of the population), but only 10 percent of physicians practice there. In fact, one county in Eastern Washington doesn’t have a single primary care physician. Additionally, when it comes to federal policies, rural communities are often left out of the decision-making process. That’s why I’m proud to join Rep. Thompson in introducing this bipartisan bill which will protect access to rural health care and ensure that rural communities are fairly represented in the government’s health care policies.” “The quality of health care you receive should not depend on whether you’re from a big city or small town,” said Rep. Thompson. “Ensuring everyone has access to high quality, affordable health care isn’t a Republican priority or Democrat priority – it is a national priority. That is why I am proud to be working across the aisle with Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers to make sure that rural America has access to health care.” TheR-HOPE Act of 2012 would bring parity to rural communities by: Increasing payments to rural hospitals which take a disproportionate share (DSH) of Medicare and Medicaid patients to the levels that urban DSH receive to better reflect the actual costs of providing care Improve payments for lab services in rural hospitals Continue geographic reclassification for certain hospitals in sparsely populated states Ensure adequate rural representation on the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission (MedPAC) Raise Rural Health Clinic reimbursements to more appropriately cover costs Extend several expiring Medicare incentive payments for rural practitioners including physicians practicing in physician scarcity areas, rural ambulance providers, and specific classes of rural hospitals. The National Rural Health Association (NRHA) endorsed today’s bill. "We commend Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers and Congressman Mike Thompson for the introduction of the Rural Hospital and Provider Equity Act of 2012,” said NRHA CEO Alan Morgan. “This legislation will go far in ensuring that rural providers have the necessary tools to provide quality care for all rural Americans. We encourage the passage of this vital legislation." This week, Rep. McMorris Rodgers received NRHA’s 2012 Outstanding Legislative Leader award. "NRHA is pleased to award Representative McMorris Rodgers with our Outstanding Legislative Leader award for great efforts to improve the health of rural America,” said Mr. Morgan. As co-chair of the House Rural Health Coalition, she is leading the charge in Congress to improve longstanding payment and health disparities in rural America. NRHA thanks her for being a rural health champion."
01.27.2012	Spokane, WA- Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) hosted a meeting of the “Forward Fairchild” team today to plan next steps in the community’s efforts to make Fairchild Air Force Base the home of the KC-46A tanker. “Forward Fairchild” is a committee of regional leaders to protect and advocate for Fairchild AFB, Eastern Washington’s largest employer. The Air Force will begin its process of identifying a location for the new tankers shortly. At today’s successful meeting, “Forward Fairchild” initiated a six-month strategy to bring those tankers to Fairchild. “I was delighted to lead this landmark meeting which will directly affect the future of Fairchild Air Force Base and the people of Eastern Washington,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “The leaders of our community – Republican and Democrat; private sector and public sector; military and civilian – are united in their determination to bring the tankers to Fairchild. We are convinced that Fairchild is the best choice, and the only choice, and we are determined to make our shared goal a reality. Now is our moment, and we must seize it.” The Air Force’s Air Mobility Command is in the process of putting together its strategic base criteria for the KC-46A and is expected to submit the criteria for approval in March. At that point, the Air Force will begin an enterprise-wide review of potential base candidates and make recommendations to the Secretary later this spring/early June. Fairchild is one of the leading candidates to bed the tankers. “Whether you’re considering the age of Fairchild’s current tankers or the base’s proximity to Asia, or whether you’re considering the high quality of Fairchild’s leadership or the courage of its service members and their families, no base in the entire country is better qualified to serve as the first home of the new tankers than Fairchild,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. Since coming to Congress in 2005, Rep. McMorris Rodgers has worked to expand and strengthen the role of Fairchild – including making sure that the next generation of air refueling tankers is based there. Every year, Rep. McMorris Rodgers leads the “Forward Fairchild” team to the Pentagon to meet with the Secretary of the Air Force and other high-ranking military officials to discuss the importance of Fairchild and the new tankers and possible new missions. This year’s meeting will take place in April.
01.26.2012	Spokane, WA– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) hosted a meeting with local stakeholders today to coordinate efforts to see the North Spokane Corridor through to completion. The Corridor is a multi-generational project that, once finished, will connect trade routes throughout Eastern Washington, the region, and Canada, helping farmers and small business owners transport their goods and commodities throughout North America. “The North Spokane Corridor has been – and continues to be – an effective multimodal transportation system that has the potential to create thousands of jobs and bring hundreds of millions of dollars in new tax revenue to our community,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “There is a role for the federal government in funding infrastructure projects, like the North Spokane Corridor. And by working together at the state and local level, I know we can increase the likelihood of earning more federal support. Today’s meeting was an important step forward in achieving our goal of completing the Corridor and boosting Eastern Washington’s economy.” Stakeholders at today’s meeting included Mr. Wayne Brokaw; Executive Director of Inland Northwest AGC; Mr. Tom Paine, Director of Government Affairs, AVISTA; and Mr. Rich Hadley, CEO of Greater Spokane, Inc., among others. Last year, Rep. McMorris Rodgers advocated for the North Spokane Corridor and other Eastern Washington transportation priorities by submitting written testimony to the House Highways and Transit Subcommittee as part of their drafting of the Surface Transportation Reauthorization Bill.
01.25.2012	“The American People Have a Right to Know How the IMF is Using Their Tax Dollars; $100 Billion is At Stake” Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today after Americans for Limited Government (ALG) announced they have filed an administrative appeal to the Treasury Department due to the Department’s failure to respond to Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests to comply with even minimal transparency standards in their dealings with the International Monetary Fund (IMF): "As the IMF gets more involved in the European debt crisis – financing costly bailouts for Greece, Portugal, Ireland, and probably other countries – the American people have a right to know how the IMF is using their tax money, and whether that money is being used effectively. Since the start of the debt crisis, the Treasury Department has ignored legitimate inquiries about America’s involvement in the IMF bailouts, and that is unacceptable. Secretary Geithner’s failure to meet the bare minimum standards of transparency makes it all the more urgent that Congress rescind the IMF's $100 billion line of credit which the Secretary oversees." In 2009, a Democratic Congress approved Secretary Tim Geithner’s request to grant a $100 billion line of credit to IMF for financial emergencies. Rep. McMorris Rodgers has introduced legislation, H.R. 2313, which would rescind that line of credit. The bill has 90 co-sponsors. ALG President Bill Wilson said today, "It is simply outrageous that the Obama Administration is trying to hide information from the American people about a $100 billion liability that this President supported and signed into law. Based on publicly available information, we know the U.S. is already bailing out Europe. The question is to what extent, which a proper response to our FOIA request by Treasury would reveal.” Since May 2010, the European Union and the IMF have approved bailouts for Greece, Portugal, and Ireland totaling $561 billion. The U.S. is the largest funder of the IMF and has veto authority at the IMF Board of Directors. “I applaud ALG for taking the initiative to enforce transparency at the Treasury Department and protect precious U.S. tax dollars,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. Rep. McMorris Rodgers was the first Member of Congress to publicly oppose U.S. involvement through the IMF in the European bailouts. A compilation of her work on this issue can be found here. Americans for Limited Government (ALG) is a non-partisan, nationwide network committed to advancing free-market reforms, private property rights and core American liberties. To download their appeal, click here.
01.24.2012	“We Need to ‘Get Back to Basics’;‘More of the Same’ Won’t Work” Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement tonight in response to President Obama’s State of the Union speech: “What I heard from the President tonight was mostly a defense of his failed policies, and after three years of economic turmoil, that is no longer acceptable to the people of Eastern Washington or the American people. “Instead of promising ‘more of the same,’ the President should have invited Congress to work with him on free market-solutions to revive our economy and put our fiscal house in order. So far, House Republicans have passed 27 jobs bills which take this ‘back to basics’ approach, but the Senate refuses to consider them and the President ignores them. That is not leadership. Last week, the President’s own Jobs Council released a report validating many Republican ideas on job creation – including tax reform, regulatory relief, and expanding domestic energy production. Those ideas can be the basis for bipartisan discussion and action. But as we saw with the recent Keystone decision and tonight’s speech, the President has decided that while jobs can wait, his campaign cannot. “Despite the current challenges, I remain hopeful that Congress and the White House can still work together to solve our nation’s problems. This will be an important session of Congress, and I pledge to do my part to find common ground, change the direction of our country, and keep the American Dream alive for the next generation. “I will also be using this session of Congress to advocate for bipartisan initiatives directly focused on Eastern Washington, including bringing the KC-46A tanker to Fairchild Air Force Base, completing the North Spokane Corridor, and passing my bills to expand Graduate Medical Education in Spokane and bolster hydropower production.”
01.24.2012	Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today after the Democrat-led Senate reached the ignoble milestone of reaching 1,000 straight days without passing a budget. “As a wife and mother, I could not imagine going 1,000 straight days without doing a family budget, and yet here we have the Senate going 1,000 days and counting without passing a budget for our government. Without the ability to establish priorities, the Senate has found it impossible to join us in reducing wasteful spending and put our fiscal house in order. Their behavior is irresponsible and unacceptable. The House, on the other hand, has met its constitutional responsibilities, passing a budget that cuts $6 trillion in projected spending over the next decade – an amount that S&P said would have prevented their recent downgrade of America’s credit rating. I call on the Senate to stop making excuses and do its job. The American people are waiting.” Last night, the Obama Administration announced that it would not meet the statutory deadline of February 6, 2012, to submit the Fiscal Year 2013 budget proposal to Congress. “With tonight being the State of the Union, you would think the Senate and Administration would try harder to get things off to a better start. Instead, it looks like we’ll be getting ‘more of the same.’” The House Republican Conference marked today’s milestone by releasing a new video, 1,000 Days. To watch it, click here.
01.18.2012	“A Disappointing Day;What Happened to ‘America Can’t Wait’ for Jobs?” Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement today after President Obama formally rejected the Keystone XL Pipeline Project. “I am extremely disappointed in the President’s decision to reject the Keystone Pipeline. This is a project that has bipartisan support, would create 100,000 jobs, and would reduce our dangerous dependence on Mideast oil. There is no valid reason for the President to reject the will of the American people – including business leaders, labor unions, and foreign policy experts – and derail this job-creating, shovel-ready project. The President himself has said that America ‘can’t wait’ for pro-growth legislation, and yet he continually delayed making a decision on the pipeline before inexplicably killing it. The American people – who are already suffering from near-record unemployment and rising energy prices – deserve better than this type of ‘leadership.’ Despite this setback, House Republicans will continue to advocate for pro-growth and pro-energy policies. Keystone will remain part of those policies.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers was an original co-sponsor of H.R. 1938 and H.R. 3548 – and, more recently, a strong advocate of H.R. 3765 – all of which required President Obama to make a final decision about the Keystone Project. She also sent a letter last month to President Obama, in which she and her colleagues urged him to approve the Keystone Project if he wanted to be serious about job creation. Rep. McMorris Rodgers discussed Keystone at today’s House Republican Leadership press conference, which took place before the announcement. To watch her remarks, click here.
12.22.2011	Washington, D.C. – Representatives Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) and Donna F. Edwards (MD-4), Co-Chairs of the Afghan Women’s Task Force, released a joint statement regarding the first-ever U.S. National Action Plan on Women, Peace, and Security released by President Obama. “The U.S. National Action Plan on Women, Peace, and Security is a landmark commitment from the United States to ensure that women, particularly in those conflict zones, are included in peace negotiations and peacebuilding activities. It is well documented, and the strong belief of the Afghan Women’s Task Force, that including women in diplomatic, military, and development-support activities creates more stable, peaceful, and economically viable communities. “Less than a month after the Bonn Conference in Germany, this national plan comes at an important time for the women of Afghanistan. The conference conclusions issued on December 5, 2011, recognize that the rights of women must be protected but provides less certainty on the framework for women’s inclusion. As we maintain our engagement with President Karzai and other Afghan officials, military personnel, and assistance organizations, the President’s National Action Plan will provide additional confidence to the women of Afghanistan that the United States will continue to advocate for the protection of their constitutional rights and their full and equal participation in Afghan society.” ###
12.15.2011	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference and member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, together with Rep. Diana DeGette (D-CO), introduced H.R. 3680, the Hydropower Regulatory Efficiency Act of 2011 today. This bipartisan legislation will facilitate the development of small hydropower and conduit projects, as well as direct FERC to study the feasibility of a streamlined two-year permitting process. “This bipartisan legislation will create jobs and ensure that America maintains its competitive advantage in the energy sector. As the largest clean and green electricity source in the United States, hydropower has the potential to create 700,000 new jobs without building one new dam,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “This bill promotes what Eastern Washington already knows: hydro is as clean and green as energy comes – and it’s affordable.” As founder of the Congressional Hydropower Caucus, Rep. McMorris Rodgers has been a leading champion of this energy source for years. Hydropower, in particular, provides 75 percent of electricity to Eastern Washington and the Pacific Northwest. As the leading source of clean energy, the amount of hydropower generated and sold in an average year is equivalent to nearly 64 million barrels of oil. “At a time when our economy desperately needs to put Americans back to work, we should be looking for every opportunity to create jobs. This legislation will do just that. It will be enormously beneficial to those in Eastern Washington and across the country. Hydropower has the capacity to meet our country’s growing energy needs, reduce our dependence on foreign oil, and put Americans back to work. It’s time to say ‘yes’ to one of America’s most promising clean energy sources.”
12.14.2011	“Committed to Ensuring that National Defense Remains a Top Priority” Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, applauded today’s passage of H.R.1540, the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) for Fiscal Year 2012. “This legislation ensures that our troops – both at home and abroad – have access to the resources, equipment and training necessary to safely execute their missions,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “While we must face reduced funding levels to comply with the Budget Control Act, this legislation will allow us to enhance our national security, modernize our Armed Forces, and invest in the resources needed to protect the United States from current and future threats.” This bill brings the total authorized funding for National Defense FY2012 to $554 billion for the base budget and $115.5 billion for overseas contingency programs. Approximately $530 billion will be allocated to the Department of Defense. The budget authorizes continued funding for military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan. “As a former member of the House Armed Services Committee and a representative of military families at Fairchild Air Force Base and across Eastern Washington, I am committed to ensuring that our national defense remains a top priority and that our servicemembers and their families have access to the resources they need.” ###
12.14.2011	Spearheaded by Rep. McMorris Rodgers, Sen. Murray, Sen. Cantwell, & Gov. Gregoire, Washington Delegation Letter Pushes U.S. Air Force to Secure Fairchild AFB as New Fleet Location Washington, DC — Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers, Sen. Patty Murray, Sen. Maria Cantwell, and Gov. Christine Gregoire have launched a campaign to ensure that Fairchild Air Force Base becomes home to the next generation of aerial refueling tankers. As part of that campaign, Washington State’s full congressional delegation sent a letter to U.S. Air Force Secretary Michael B. Donley to outline the exceptional assets Fairchild has to offer the new fleet. The letter was sent in conjunction with efforts by Washington state legislative leaders who also voiced their support for tanker placement at Fairchild. “Fairchild Air Force Base has been a historic part of our nation’s aerial refueling effort and is well suited to achieve global-level reach to the emerging Asia-Pacific theater,” the delegation members wrote.“Fairchild provides an exceptional quality of life for its airmen and the local community has embraced the base. The Spokane community has a rich history with the military and embraces military personnel, their families, and retirees through programs and events that have drawn numerous military recognitions awarded to the community.” The KC-46A is intended to replace the U.S. Air Force's aging fleet of KC-135 Stratotankers which has been the primary refueling aircraft for more than 50 years. With more refueling capacity and enhanced capabilities, improved efficiency and increased capabilities for cargo and aeromedical evacuation, the KC-46A will provide aerial refueling support to the Air Force, Navy, Marine Corps as well as allied nation coalition force aircraft. The full text of the letter follows: Michael B. Donley Secretary of the Air Force 1690 Air Force Pentagon Washington, DC 20330 Dear Secretary Donley, On behalf of the State of Washington, we would like to thank you for the service and sacrifice made by the men and women and their families of the United States Air Force on behalf of our nation. It is with that gratitude that we write to you today in support of the KC-46A aerial refueling program and the Air Force’s strategic basing process. As you know, the KC-46A will play a critical role in the United States’ global strategy. Mission successes will rely heavily on the strategic basing determination process and the effective and efficient use of these aircraft. Fairchild Air Force Base has been a historic part of our nation’s aerial refueling effort and is well suited to achieve global-level reach to the emerging Asia-Pacific theater. The base is a strategic staging platform supporting the rapid worldwide global mobility mission with access to a number of aerial refueling routes while minimizing transit fuel consumption. Fairchild is also home to a classic association of the 92nd Air Refueling Wing with the Air National Guard 141st Air Refueling Wing. The association marries the best the active duty and reserve component have to offer, providing for world-class aerial refueling, airlift and aeromedical evacuation capabilities while fostering innovation and efficiency in operation. Together, the integrated ARWs deliver a full spectrum of capability with one of the largest, most experienced organizations in the Air Force today. The Air Force continues to recognize Fairchild’s assets and has invested over $400 million in base infrastructure over the last several decades. Accommodating the new KC-46A will require a modest investment in infrastructure as the Air Force has already improved the 14,000 foot runway and has plans to build a new Wing Headquarters and improved SERE facilities. Fairchild provides an exceptional quality of life for its airmen and the local community has embraced the base. It is a strongly desired duty station and is the second-most requested Air Force assignment in the United States. There are also 1000 Air Guard members who reside in the community with additional retirees who choose Spokane as their home following their military careers. The Spokane community has a rich history with the military and embraces military personnel, their families, and retirees through programs and events that have drawn numerous military recognitions awarded to the community. The Spokane community has developed a white paper by “Forward Fairchild,” a coalition of Spokane businesses and community advocated that further detail the benefits associated with Fairchild Air Force Base, the Spokane community and Washington State. We have enclosed it for your review. We look forward to your consideration of Fairchild Air Force Base as a home for the new tanker fleet. Sincerely, U.S. Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers U.S. Senator Patty Murray U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell U.S. Representative Jay Inslee U.S. Representative Rick Larsen U.S. Representative Jaime Herrera Beutler U.S. Representative Doc Hastings U.S. Representative Norm Dicks U.S. Representative Jim McDermott U.S. Representative Dave Reichert U.S. Representative Adam Smith Contact: McMorris Rodgers:202-225-2006 Murray: 202-224-2834 Cantwell: 202-224-8277 Gregoire: 202-624-3691 Inslee: 206-361-0233 Larsen: 202-226-9716 Smith: 202-570-2771 Reichert: 202-225-7761 Dicks: 202-226-1175 Herrera Butler: 202-225-3536 Hastings: 202-225-5816 McDermott: 202-225-3106 ###
12.14.2011	Bipartisan Bill Would Create AlternatePayment Model for Graduate Medical Education;Bolster Spokane’s Medical Sector Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and Rep. Mike Thompson (D-CA), Co-Chairs of the Congressional Rural Health Caucus, introduced the Primary Care Workforce Access Improvement Act today. This bipartisan bill would promote the training of primary care doctors in rural communities by allocating a portion of Graduate Medical Education (GME) funding go toward the implementation of a pilot project. “I am proud to introduce this bill which will bolster our community’s efforts to make Spokane a national hub for graduate medical education and improve the quality of care for our citizens – particularly in rural areas,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “If we want the brightest doctors of America’s future to learn and practice right here in Spokane, this bill will help make that happen. I also want to thank my Co-Chair, Congressman Thompson, for his leadership and teamwork. We will continue to work together to pass this bill and have it signed into law.” The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office (CBO) has documented a need for GME pilot programs in previous years. Under the McMorris Rodgers/Thompson bill, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) would recognize four community-based medical education entity models to receive and distribute GME funding for primary care. Payments would be made in the same manner as the current GME payment process to hospitals but to the medical education entity. The pilot project is budget neutral and terminates in five years. “We believe this would be of great value to the state of Washington, the other states in the WWAMI region, and the nation,” said Dr. Sam Cullison, President of the University of Washington Family Medicine Residency Network (WWAMI). Today’s bill was also endorsed by the Council of Academic Family Medicine. The Congresswoman delivered a House floor speech today advocating for her bill. To watch her speech, click here.
12.14.2011	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, met with IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde today to discuss America’s growing role through the IMF in the European bailouts. This was the first meeting between Madame Lagarde – who assumed the IMF’s top position in July – and Rep. McMorris Rodgers, Congress’ leading opponent of U.S. participation through the IMF in the European bailouts. After the meeting, Rep. McMorris Rodgers released the following statement: “I’m glad that Madame Lagarde and I had the opportunity to meet today to discuss America’s role in the IMF’s bailouts and how we can work together to resolve the global debt crisis and build a stronger foundation for economic growth – in America, Europe, and throughout the world. As I told Madame Lagarde today, at a time when America is experiencing the longest streak of high unemployment since the Great Depression and adding over a trillion dollars every year to our $15 trillion debt, Congress and the American people are growing increasingly alarmed by America’s growing involvement in the gathering storm of European bailouts. While America appreciates its responsibilities as the world’s economic leader, a good case can be made that America would best serve our European allies by abstaining from these bailouts because it would help them to enforce the spending and borrowing discipline that both Europe and America need.” “With the European debt crisis continuing to dominate the news – and threatening to pull the world into a double-dip recession – I know this is an issue that will continue to grow, and so, I look forward to continuing the dialogue with Madame Lagarde on the effectiveness of the IMF’s policies and how America can play the most constructive role going forward.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers is the author of H.R. 2313 which would rescind the IMF’s authority to spend up to $108 billion of U.S. taxpayer money that is currently available to fund the European bailouts. In the last two weeks, the number of cosponsors of the bill has grown from 22 to 85.
12.09.2011	Congress Should Rescind $108 Billion Contribution to IMFBeing Used for $1.3 Trillion EU Bailout Fund Will be on CNBC’s Kudlow Report TONIGHT toDiscuss Latest Developments Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) announced today that she has sent a letter with 22 other Members of Congress to the appropriations megabus conferees declaring that to save taxpayers’ money, Congress should rescind $108 billion in borrowing authority and increased quota contributions to the International Monetary Fund (IMF) that is being used to bail out European governments. Americans for Prosperity and 19 other conservative organizations sent their own letter to Congress in support of the measure. Rep. McMorris Rodgers is the author of H.R. 2313, which would stop U.S. participation through the IMF in the European bailouts. “As the European financial crisis continues to unfold, the IMF continues to spend hundreds of billions of dollars bailing out members of the European Union,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers in her letter. “What’s more disturbing is that over the last several days, the Administration has made clear its intent to continue supporting these bailout efforts…The time for wasteful spending is over – both here and abroad. The United States cannot continue this wasteful practice.” "Hardworking American taxpayers should not be forced to cover the costs of reckless government spending policies in countries like Greece and Italy," said the coalitions in their letter. "It is unconscionable to force middle-class Americans to pay for European bureaucrats to retire in their fifties with full pensions and benefits. The problems in Europe are for Europe to address without forcing American taxpayers to pick up the tab." To read their letter, click here In 2009, Congress approved the $108 billion increase in IMF contributions at the request of President Obama and over the objection of nearly all House Republicans. Rep. McMorris Rodgers was the first Member of Congress to publicly oppose U.S. participation in the European bailouts. The size of the European Union/IMF bailout fund is now $1.3 trillion. A full compilation of the Congresswoman’s work on this issue can be found here. A copy of her letter is below. December 9, 2011 Dear Conferees: As you consider the funding issues for FY2012, we are writing to ensure that provisions of H.R. 2313, a bill that rescinds the $108 billion in increased quota contributions and borrowing authority to the International Monetary Fund (IMF), are included in your final appropriations package. As the European financial crisis continues to unfold, the IMF continues to spend hundreds of billions of dollars bailing out members of the European Union. As the largest contributor to the IMF, the United States and the American taxpayer are condoning the practice of prolifigate spending undertaken by members of the European Union with bailout packages. Bailout packages have been made available to European Union members that don’t even meet their own economic requirements for membership, such as Greece that maintains a reported debt to GDP ratio of 140 percent and Italy with a reported debt to GDP ratio of 120 percent, and have provided little to no guarantee that any fiscal reform will be enforced. What’s more disturbing is that over the last several days, the Administration has made clear its intent to continue supporting these bailout efforts. Earlier this summer, the House State, Foreign Operations, and Related Agencies Subcommittee issued a draft report for its FY 2012 State, Foreign Operation, and Related Agencies appropriations bill, which included language “requiring all funds provided to the International Monetary Fund in the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-32) be deobligated, withdrawn, and rescinded.” H.R. 2313 continues these efforts rescinding the $108 billion in increased quota and new borrowing authority. The time for wasteful spending is over – both here and abroad. The United States cannot continue this wasteful practice. We urge you to rescind the $108 billion in enhanced quota contributions and borrowing authority that were requested by the Administration in 2009. Sincerely, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers
12.08.2011	Job-Creating Bill is High Priority forEastern Washington Agricultural Community Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, continued her push for pro-growth economic policies by voting for H.R. 1633, the Farm Dust Regulation Prevention Act today. This bipartisan bill would prevent the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from imposing stricter farm dust regulations, removing a costly, unnecessary burden on America’s farmers and ranchers. “At a time when America is suffering from the longest streak of high unemployment since the Great Depression, I cannot understand why this Administration, through the EPA, continues to support environmental regulations that have no scientifically-proven health benefits yet are guaranteed to destroy jobs,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “The EPA’s PM10 standard is one of many examples of the federal government’s bureaucratic overreach and expanding that standard would be devastating to our farms and ranches. In Eastern Washington, whether you’re working the fields, herding cattle, or driving down a dirt road – dust will be kicked up – and that farm dust is a byproduct of American labor, not an air pollutant. That’s why I voted for the Farm Dust Regulation Prevention Act, which would prevent the EPA from imposing unachievable standards on our rural communities.” On March 16, 2011, Rep. McMorris Rodgers wrote a letter to EPA Director Lisa Jackson encouraging her not to expand course particle (PM10) regulations on farmers and ranchers.
12.07.2011	Bipartisan Bill Will Provide Regulatory Relief & Create Jobs Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, continued her push for pro-growth economic policies by voting for the Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny Act (REINS) Act today. This bipartisan bill would require that any regulation whose effect on the economy would exceed $100 million annually would require Congressional approval in order to become law. “As we consistently heard during Monday’s CEO Panel, the Administration’s never-ending onslaught of rules and regulations is having a chilling effect on job creation in America,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Whether it’s new farm dust regulations, new forest-runoff regulations, or the new health care mandate, the uncertainty created by these proposed rules is keeping unemployment artificially high and delaying our economic recovery.” The National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) reports that regulations cost small businesses more than $1.75 trillion per year – more than 12 percent of America's entire economy. In addition, the Obama Administration is publicly considering 219 major new regulations – each of which, if implemented, would cost our economy $100 million or more. With today’s passage, the REINS Act will join 25 other bipartisan, House-passed jobs bills that are being blocked by Senate Democrats. Rep. McMorris Rodgers advocated for the REINS Act at today’s House Republican Leadership stakeout. To watch her remarks, click here.
12.06.2011	Washington, D.C.– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, hosted the inaugural GOP Women’s CEO Panel on Jobs and the Economy at the U.S. Capitol today. The successful roundtable discussion featured six of the country’s most prominent female CEOs and focused on the effects that current policies and regulations have had on economic growth and job creation. “America stands at an unprecedented crossroads right now. We’ve faced 34 consecutive months of unemployment above eight percent and a debt that has reached $15 trillion – an all-time record. We’re here today – as CEOs and Members of Congress alike – to say that we refuse to watch those numbers rise,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers in her opening remarks. Rep. McMorris Rodgers was joined by six other women Republican Members, including Reps. Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Renee Ellmers (R-NC), Virginia Foxx (R-NC), Vicky Hartzler (R-MO), Cynthia Lummis (R-WY) and Jean Schmidt (R-OH). They facilitated a discussion about the challenges these CEOs have faced in the current economic climate, especially in light of the Super Committee failure, the escalating European debt crisis, the ongoing tax reform debate and the two dozen jobs bills that have stalled in the U.S. Senate. “Today’s discussion provided a phenomenal and unique opportunity to bring leaders and lawmakers together to discuss the state of the economy and what we can dotogether to improve it,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “We heard from women CEOs from a variety of industries – energy, technology, defense, insurance, engineering and health care – and while their backgrounds are different, their experience is not. They all cited duplicative, burdensome regulations and economic uncertainty as the major impediments to job creation and business growth. It’s time we enact pro-growth policies to stimulate our economy and get Americans back to work again.” The CEO panelists included: Dr. Alison Brown– NAVSYS CorporationMs. Catherine Heigel – Duke Energy South CarolinaMs. Lisa Hook – Neustar, Inc.Ms. Barbara Martin – Vista Health SystemMs. Sandra Parrillo – Providence Mutual Fire InsuranceMs. Janet Trautwein – National Association of Health Underwriters
12.02.2011	Washington, D.C. – Ahead of the Bonn Conference on International Development Policy in Bonn, Germany, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX) led a bipartisan, bicameral group of 26 female Congressional members in writing to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton. The letter highlights the United States’ unique ability to assure that Afghan women are integrated in discussions regarding the future of their country. Women are nearly one half of the Afghan population and are an essential part of Afghanistan’s economic and security needs. Nearly one-quarter of Afghanistan’s official delegation to the Bonn Conference will be made up of Afghan women. The text of the letter is below. A PDF with the list of signatures can be found here. For more information on the Bonn Conference, click here. December 2, 2011 The Honorable Hillary Rodham Clinton Secretary of State United States Department of State 2201 C St, NW Washington DC 20520 Dear Secretary Clinton, Thank you for your continued leadership on women’s participation in Afghanistan’s political and economic future. We are writing to express our views on the upcoming conference in Bonn, Germany, and the role the United States can play to ensure that the progress made by Afghan women over the last decade is not diminished. As you know, the conference comes at a critical time and presents an opportunity to ensure that the Afghanistan that moves forward is one that is united, secure, and self-sustaining. We believe Afghan women are central to this goal. Representing nearly half of the country’s population, Afghan women are the key to the nation’s future economic and security successes. History shows that “economically active” Afghan women have the ability to lift their families, the provinces, and the nation out of poverty and despair. In fact, until the early 1990s, Afghan women were critical participants in Afghanistan’s development strategy, serving as business owners, nurses, doctors, teachers, and journalists. It is Afghan women who have borne the brunt of extremism – experiencing the world’s second highest maternal and infant mortality rates and illiteracy rates exceeding 85 percent of all women and girls. The inability of women to participate at any level of government has only exacerbated their situation. Since 2001, women have made their way back into government. Yet, their gains are fragile. Recent events, including the assassination of Professor Burhanuddin Rabbani, only serve to underscore this point. Moreover, they demonstrate that the progress made by women under the Afghan Constitution will only diminish without the United States’ and the international community’s vigilance. It is against this backdrop that we seek your support. Afghan women yearn for peace and security—yet they’re concerned. They welcome assurances from abroad, but, ultimately, their progress will only be safeguarded if the women themselves are present, in large enough numbers, at every conference, jirga, or negotiation where decisions about their future are being made. With vibrant networks throughout the provinces, Afghan women are eager to do their part in building a national consensus for peace. The upcoming conference provides the international community and particularly the United States with a unique opportunity to advocate for a more inclusive approach to reconciliation that will open avenues for women's meaningful inclusion and put Afghanistan firmly on the path of peace and prosperity. We believe that it is only through the commitment by the Afghan government and the nation’s communities that change will occur. As you participate in the Bonn Conference, know that we stand ready to work with you in any capacity to ensure that meaningful reform takes place. Sincerely, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison ###
12.01.2011	Nearly 200 Attendees Come Togetherto Support Military Families Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA), Co-Chairs of the Congressional Military Family Caucus (CMFC), hosted the Caucus’ second annual Military Family Summit on Capitol Hill today. The successful all-day event brought together Members of Congress; leading Administration officials, active, guard and reserve service members; veterans; and their families in a common purpose to draw attention to the needs of military families and advocate legislative solutions on their behalf. There were nearly 200 attendees. “When a service member joins the military, it’s not just a job; it’s a family commitment to our country,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers, whose husband, Brian, is a retired Naval pilot. “As we heard today, America’s military families have needs that are not being met, but with your contributions here today, we can better understand those needs and begin to address them.” Speakers at the event included House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi; Mr. Robert Gordon, Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense, Military Community and Family Policy; Lieutenant General Jack C. Stultz, Chief, Army Reserve and Commanding General, U.S. Army Reserve Command; and Sergeant Major Bryan B. Battaglia, Senior Enlisted Advisor to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. The breakout sessions throughout the day focused on key issues affecting military families – specifically, children’s issues; Service, Guard and Reserve member issues; spouse’s issues; and veteran’s issues. Rep. McMorris Rodgers led the discussion on children’s issues. “As a Congresswoman, I can tell you, the most important factor for developing good legislation is getting input from those who would be affected by that legislation,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “The input we received during today’s panel discussions, roundtables, and breakout sessions was insightful and engaging and will be instrumental in developing better public policy for military families across the country.” The CMFC is a bipartisan educational forum for Members of Congress and their staff on military family issues. It was founded by Reps. McMorris Rodgers and Bishop in 2009. Photo caption: Rep. McMorris Rodgers answers an audience member’s question at today’s Military Family Summit. Seated from left to right are Rep. Sanford D. Bishop Jr. (D-GA); Lieutenant General Jack C. Stultz, Chief, Army Reserve and Commanding General, U.S. Army Reserve Command; and Major General Randy E. Manner, Director, Joint Staff, National Guard Bureau. Additional photos from today’s event can be found here.
11.18.2011	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today after the House considered the balanced budget amendment but fell short of the required two-thirds majority for passage. “Even before I arrived in Congress, I called for a balanced budget amendment to control government spending and put our fiscal house in order. And as a Member, I am even more convinced that this body needs an institutional mechanism to live within its means and start paying down our $15 trillion debt. While the House fell a bit short today – attaining a two-thirds majority for any legislative item is a challenging task – I am still glad that we had this debate because it will give fresh momentum to the cause and make it more likely that we will eventually get it passed through Congress and become the law of the land. The national debt hangs like a sword of Damocles over the future of our country. Controlling that debt remains the preeminent issue of our time. We haven’t given up the fight for fiscal sanity and a balanced budget amendment. The fight will continue. It has to.” Before today, the House hadn’t considered a balanced budget amendment since 1995. During the past 16 years, the national debt has grown from $4.7 trillion to $15 trillion. If current trends continue, the debt will reach $22 trillion by 2021, or about $200,000 per American family.
11.15.2011	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, advocated for the balanced budget amendment at today’s House Republican Leadership press conference. The House is scheduled to vote on the amendment later this week. A transcript of her remarks is below. To watch the video, click here. “Like my colleagues, I am very excited that we will be voting on a balanced budget amendment this week. Both parties have been guilty of spending too much money and now we have a debt that is strangling our economic growth. This is a proposal that has been around for some time. It has broad support across the country. Seventy-four percent of Americans support the balanced budget amendment. Two out of three Democrats support the balanced budget amendment. “And why is it so important? I think James Madison said it well. He said, ‘Before you can provide for the common defense and promote the general welfare and secure the blessings of liberty, you have to be able to pay for it.’ “The balanced budget amendment would force Congress to start living within its means, set priorities, and have that debate over the appropriate role of the federal government.”
11.15.2011	Bipartisan Bill Would Reform Tax Code toEmpower Americans with Disabilities Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Co-Chair of the Congressional Down Syndrome Caucus, joined a bipartisan group of House and Senate leaders in introducing the Achieving a Better Life Expectancy (ABLE) Act today. This bill – which would reform the tax code to empower Americans with disabilities and their families – is a high priority for disability advocacy groups. Specifically, it would allow parents of children with disabilities to save for their children’s future without jeopardizing their access to benefits, helping many of them escape from poverty while adding another layer of security. “As the mom of a child with special needs, I know too often federal policies limit those with disabilities making them become dependent on the government and keeping them in poverty,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers at a press conference unveiling the bill today. “To take one example, when my son Cole was born, my husband and I were advised not to put any assets in Cole’s name because it would penalize him if he needed to qualify for a government program someday. There are millions of other parents in this same situation. They would like to help their children improve their quality of life without jeopardizing their access to benefits. That’s why we need the ABLE Act. This common-sense bill would allow parents to save for their children’s future and give kids with disabilities a chance to live the American Dream. I’m proud to join my colleagues in introducing this bill and I will be a strong leader on its behalf.” Rep. Ander Crenshaw (R-FL), the lead author of today’s bill, released the following statement: “Our tax code currently provides advantages to help Americans save for college and retirement, yet people with disabilities do not enjoy those same financial planning tools. These individuals and their families face enormous financial struggles that most of us cannot imagine. The ABLE Act helps ease those strains by making tax-free savings accounts available to cover qualified expenses such as education, housing, and transportation. No longer would individuals with disabilities have to stand aside and watch others use IRS-sanctioned tools to lay the groundwork for a brighter future. They would be able to as well, and that’s an accomplishment we all can be proud of.” In addition to Rep. Crenshaw and Rep. McMorris Rodgers, a list of speakers at today’s press conference is below: Sen. Robert Casey, Jr. (D-PA)Rep. Chris Van Hollen (D-MD), Co-Chair of the Congressional Down Syndrome CaucusRep. Pete Sessions (R-TX), Co-Chair of the Congressional Down Syndrome CaucusMr. Peter V. Berns, CEO of The ArcMr. Peter Bell, Executive Vice President of Autism SpeaksMr. Charles H. "Chip" Gerhardt, Chairman of the National Down Syndrome Society (NDSS) Board of DirectorsMs. Sara Wolff, Member of the NDSS Board of DirectorsOfficials from other disability advocacy groups The House version of the ABLE Act has 28 original co-sponsors.
11.10.2011	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus, spoke at the Veterans Day Celebration at Spokane Area today. An extract of her prepared remarks is below. “Today, we pay tribute to those brave men and women who have served our nation in uniform.We also honor the enduring service of our soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines, and Coast Guardsmen. Whether during peacetime or war, at home or abroad, their service has been characterized by selflessness and a sense of greater purpose. “Right now, our troops are answering the call in locations around the world. Soldiers and Marines are stationed in Iraq. Air Force pilots fly the skies over Afghanistan. The Navy and Coast Guard stand watch over troubled seas. Reservists and National Guardsmen continue to serve – often at the expense of their civilian jobs – on extended active duty for a year or more. “As these men and women have sacrificed, so too have their families. For each displaced service member, there is often a husband or wife left behind. These quiet patriots have kissed their spouse goodbye and sent them off to duty – often in harm’s way – without the assurance their loved one will ever return. Whatever accolades we bestow upon our veterans, we must also remember the sacrifice of their families. “Every November 11, America celebrates Veterans Day and honors its heroes. But we should recognize and appreciate our military men and women – both past and present – every single day. Let us continue to remember those heroes who have fought – and continue to fight – to protect the freedoms we all enjoy.”
11.04.2011	“We Can Do Better, We Must Do Better, and We Must Do it Together” Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, joined a House Republican Leadership press conference about today’s unemployment report. A transcript of her remarks is below. To watch the video, click here. “We continue to hear about the 14 million Americans who are out of work, and to put that in perspective, if you had a line of all those people starting in Washington State, it would extend all the way to Maine. There’s also an additional 9 million Americans who are working part-time (and would like to have a full-time job) or have completely dropped out of the workforce. “While the President has been busy campaigning, the House has been busy legislating. We’ve been working on our ‘Forgotten 15,’ as well as other bills that would help get our economy going. One of our top priorities has been to reduce the regulatory burden on our businesses. America has the highest corporate tax rate in the world, and in addition to that, the average business owner will spend double that amount to comply with all the regulations. “Today’s jobs report underscores that we can do better, we must do better, and we must do it together.” The national unemployment rate is 9.0 percent. This week, Rep. McMorris Rodgers’ “GOP Labs” released its newest video, The #Forgotten15, highlighting the 15 jobs bills the House has passed which remain stuck in the Senate. To watch that video, click here.
10.27.2011	Cost to U.S. Taxpayers May Reach $150 Billion; Administration Should Veto Accord at Next IMF Meeting Vice Chair Will be on Fox News at 4:20 PM EST Today to Discuss Latest Developments Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, expressed grave concern after European leaders announced that the size of their fund to bailout European Union (EU) countries with the help of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) would soar to $1.4 trillion. This agreement to subsidize the failed socialist policies of our economic competitors will likely cost U.S. taxpayers over $150 billion and increase the likelihood that further bailouts will be necessary down the road without addressing the root causes of the global debt crisis. “At a time when the federal government is borrowing $5 billion every day on top of a $15 trillion national debt, we should not be funneling billions of dollars through the IMF to bail out Greece, Portugal, Ireland, and other wealthy European countries. The European Union was set up to be an economic competitor to the United States, and therefore, any bailout funds should come from the E.U., not the U.S. The global debt crisis was caused by too much spending and borrowing and that crisis will not be solved by more spending and borrowing. We cannot take the ‘too big to fail’ philosophy to a global level. The only thing ‘too big to fail’ is America itself.” The IMF has been funding one-third of the cost of the European bailouts. Before today’s agreement, the IMF had already committed $354 billion to bailing out European governments. After today’s agreement was reached, IMF Director Christine Lagarde announced, “I can assure you that the IMF will continue to play its part in supporting the efforts made today.” According to news reports, that means the IMF is poised for a “bigger role.” The U.S. is the leading contributor to the IMF. In 2009, when the IMF substantially increased its SDR Special Drawing Rights (SDR) allocation, the U.S. provided one-third of the funding. According to IMF rules, the U.S. has the power to veto all bailout agreements. Rep. McMorris Rodgers called on President Obama to veto any agreement at the next IMF Board meeting. She is the author of H.R. 2313 which would rescind the IMF’s authority to spend up to $108 billion of U.S. taxpayer money that is currently available to fund these disastrous bailouts. A full compilation of the Congresswoman’s work on this issue can be found here.
10.27.2011	House Passes Bill to End UnfairBurden on America’s Job Creators Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, voted for legislation today to repeal the 3 percent withholding requirement imposed on employers when they receive payments from the government for services they provided. This bill will bolster job creation by removing a costly, unfair burden on America’s jobs creators. “In this economy, job creators don’t have the luxury of not being paid on time,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “The withholding requirement wrongly assumes that job creators who do business with the government are somehow evading full taxation. Pre-taxing businesses 3 percent to prevent them from underpaying is like paying only 97 percent of a home repair bill ‘in case’ the repair man is overcharging. Since the American people can’t choose to pay less than 100 percent of their bills, neither should the federal government. I’m proud to support this bill which will bring fairness to the tax code and let job creators keep more of their money to create more jobs.” H.R. 674 passed the House and now moves on to the Senate.
10.27.2011	“House Republicans Will Not Let the Future of Medicare Be Threatened” Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, joined 13 Republican women Members on the House floor for a GOP Women’s Special Order Wednesday night. The Special Order focused entirely on Republican policies to protect America’s seniors. “Republican women are committed to preserving the American Dream, promoting economic growth, and protecting America’s seniors,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Seniors all across the country are threatened by this Administration’s policies. Depleting Medicare funds to pay for new entitlements is not the answer that our parents deserve. Democrats tell us to do nothing. Republicans refuse to do nothing.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers and her colleagues discussed myriad issues that affect senior citizens, including Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, Alzheimer’s, the estate tax, and the harmful effects of President Obama’s health care plan. They emphasized the Republican plan to improve and reform Medicare – outlined in the “Path to Prosperity” – by promoting choice and competition instead of government price controls; lowering health care costs; putting the decision-making process into the hands of patients and doctors; and making Medicare more financially sustainable for future generations. “House Republicans will not let the future of Medicare be threatened by this Administration’s policies,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “We will continue to protect our seniors, their benefits, and their access to quality care. And we will continue – for many years to come – to share the great story of the American Dream and our senior citizens who embody it.” Also participating in Wednesday’s Special Order included: Rep. Diane Black (R-TN), Rep. Ann Marie Buerkle (R-NY), Rep. Renee Ellmers (R-NC), Rep. Virginia Foxx (R-NC), Rep. Kay Granger (R-TX), Rep. Vicky Hartzler (R-MO), Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA), Rep. Lynn Jenkins (R-KS), Rep. Cynthia Lummis (R-WY), Rep. Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV), Rep. Kristi Noem (R-SD), Rep. Martha Roby (R-AL), and Rep. Jean Schmidt (R-OH). To watch Rep. McMorris Rodgers’s remarks on the House Floor, please click here. ###
10.25.2011	“Farm Dust is Not an Air Pollutant; It’s a Byproduct of American Labor” Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), a member of the Energy and Power Subcommittee, advocated for H.R. 1633, the Farm Dust Regulation Prevention Act of 2011, at a subcommittee hearing on the bill today. This bill would prevent the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from imposing stricter farm dust regulations, removing a costly, unnecessary burden on America’s farmers and ranchers. “At a time when America is suffering from the longest streak of high unemployment since the Great Depression, I cannot understand why this Administration, through the EPA, continues to support environmental regulations that have no scientifically-proven health benefits yet are guaranteed to destroy jobs,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “The EPA’s PM10 standard is one of many examples of the federal government’s bureaucratic overreach and expanding that standard would be devastating to our farms and ranches. In Eastern Washington, whether you’re working the fields, herding cattle, or driving down a dirt road – dust will be kicked up – and that farm dust is a byproduct of American labor, not an air pollutant. That’s why I support the Farm Dust Regulation Prevention Act, which would prevent the EPA from imposing unachievable standards on our rural communities.” On March 16, 2011, Rep. McMorris Rodgers wrote a letter to EPA Director Lisa Jackson encouraging her not to expand course particle (PM10) regulations on farmers and ranchers. The Congresswoman spoke about the Farm Dust Regulation Prevention Act and other House Republican bills to create jobs at today’s Leadership stakeout. To watch her remarks, click here.
10.25.2011	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Co-Chair of the Congressional Down Syndrome Caucus, hosted a successful briefing on Down syndrome research today. The event featured six leading researchers who discussed the unique biology of Down syndrome, the status of current research, and barriers to future research. The panel also heard from two leaders of the Down syndrome community who discussed how today’s findings could improve their advocacy efforts. “As the mom of a child with Down syndrome, I’ve come to learn about the amazing potential of Down syndrome research – and not just for the 400,000 Americans who have Down syndrome, but for millions of others who suffer from related conditions,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “While there have been significant advances in Down syndrome research – and the prospect of future research remains bright – there’s no question that a lot of work remains to be done. I am confident that today’s briefing will help the Down syndrome community and policymakers take the necessary steps to improve our research infrastructure, benefitting those who have Down syndrome, and millions of other Americans, as well.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers recently introduced two bills to take Down syndrome research to the next level: H.R. 2696, the Trisomy 21 Research Resource Act and H.R. 2695, the Trisomy 21 Centers of Excellence Act of 2011. The Congresswoman delivered a House floor speech today recognizing October as Down Syndrome Awareness Month. To watch her floor speech, click here. A list of today’s panelists is below. Dr. Yvonne Maddox (National Institute of Child Health & Human Development) Dr. Ed McCabe (Linda Crnic Institute for Down Syndrome) Dr. William Mobley (UC San Diego Down Syndrome Center for Research & Treatment) Dr. Michael Harpold (Down Syndrome Research and Treatment Foundation) Dr. Roger Reeves (Johns Hopkins University) Dr. Sally Shott (Cincinnati Children’s Hospital Medical Center) Ms. Michelle Livingston (Global Down Syndrome Foundation) Ms. Madeleine Will (National Down Syndrome Society)
10.24.2011	Washington, D.C. – Representatives Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and Donna F. Edwards (D-MD), Co-Chairs of the Afghan Women’s Task Force, released a joint statement this evening following their meeting with U.S. Special Envoy to Afghanistan and Pakistan Marc Grossman. “Our meeting with Ambassador Grossman could not have come at a more critical time, following Secretary Clinton’s remarks with President Karzai and her trip over the weekend throughout Central Asia. The meeting confirmed what we have long advocated; the regional community must remain supportive of stability in Afghanistan as led by the Afghan people and that this process must include women. We fully expect President Karzai to meet his commitment that reconciliation talks, including those in Istanbul and at the Bonn Conference in December, comprise at least twenty-five percent women. This is the only way to ensure that women can protect their interests and expand their economic opportunities, both of which are critical to guaranteeing the long-term peace and sustainability of Afghanistan for all Afghans.” ###
10.19.2011	Delivers Talk on Economy, Jobs, &Preserving the American Dream Spokane, WA – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, delivered a comprehensive speech on the economy and jobs at the Spokane City Forum today. The Congresswoman emphasized the need for bipartisan free-market solutions to grow the economy, spark innovation, create jobs, and preserve the American Dream. “I’m humbled to say that I’ve lived the American Dream, and yet – like many people in this room – I’m concerned that the American Dream is slipping away,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “In the past four years, we’ve lost 7 million jobs and added $5 trillion to the national debt. After years of bad politics and broken policy, we need to unleash the power of American free enterprise to get America back to work. If we put our faith in the American people – and restore the pillars of our free-market economy – we can create millions of jobs, unleash a revolution of technological innovation, and preserve the American Dream for our children and grandchildren.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers identified four areas where Congress should be focusing its attention to create jobs: expanding domestic energy production, removing unnecessary regulatory burdens, repealing and replacing last year’s health care law, and balancing the budget. “As the home of a large and diverse energy supply, Eastern Washington is uniquely positioned to benefit from a serious effort at energy independence,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. Rep. McMorris Rodgers is one of the strongest advocates in Congress for a balanced budget amendment. The House is scheduled to vote on the amendment later this year. “Forty-nine out of 50 states require a balanced budget by law, and there’s no reason the federal government can’t do the same. There is broad, bipartisan support for a balanced budget amendment, and the time for action is now. This is our moment, and we must seize it.”
10.18.2011	Spokane, WA – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA), Co-Chairs of the Congressional Military Family Caucus, hosted the first-ever Military Family Summit at Fairchild Air Force Base today. The successful all-day event brought together Eastern Washington’s military families with state, local, and federal leaders on how to better support our military families. “Today’s summit was a tremendous success, and one that made me proud to represent the dedicated military families of Eastern Washington,” said Rep McMorris Rodgers. “Our panel discussions, roundtables, and breakout sessions were insightful and engaging. The comments and ideas that came out of them will be instrumental in developing better policy for military families at Fairchild and across the country.” In addition to Reps. McMorris Rodgers and Bishop, panelists included Mr. Robert Gordon, Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense, Military Community and Family Policy; Mr. Tom Riggs, Washington Guard Military Families; and Fairchild leadership. The breakout sessions throughout the day focused on key issues affecting the military family community, including employment, health care, retirement, education, and the Exceptional Family Member Program. There were over 100 attendees. In her closing remarks, Rep. McMorris Rodgers thanked Eastern Washington’s service members and their families for their valor, patriotism and sacrifice. “May you never forget that your service does not go unnoticed, and your dedication to our country does not go unappreciated.” The Congressional Military Family Caucus is a bipartisan educational forum for Members of Congress and their staff on military family topics. This was the Caucus’ first event outside Washington, D.C.
10.18.2011	“We Need to Improve FDA Regulations toApprove Life-Saving Treatments & Create Jobs” Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Rep. Leonard Lance (R-NJ), and six other members of the House Energy and Commerce Committee introduced the Keeping America Competitive through Harmonization Act today. This bill would streamline and improve the regulatory process for medical devices, spur innovation in a high-tech, high-paying field, bolster America’s competitiveness, and create much-needed jobs. “While America has led the medical device industry for decades, our leadership is being threatened by the FDA’s unpredictable, inconsistent and inefficient regulation of medical devices,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “According to job creators I’ve met, harmonizing FDA requirements with those of foreign regulators would help improve FDA regulation, expedite approval of life-saving and life-improving treatments, and improve the environment for job creation. Our bill will charge the FDA with undertaking the common-sense reforms that are needed to keep America the world capital of medical innovation.” On Sep. 20, 2011, Rep. McMorris Rodgers hosted the first “Jobs and Innovation Forum” on Capitol Hill with a special focus on medical device innovators, how the regulatory process impedes them, and how to improve that process. The next day, The Hill published her op-ed, The Medical Device Industry and Jobs. To read it, click here. The Keeping America Competitive through Harmonization Act would require FDA, to the maximum extent feasible, to enter into agreements with Tier One countries, like Australia, Canada, Israel and those of the European Union, on methods and approaches to harmonizing regulatory requirements for premarket review, inspections and common international labels. In the United States, medical technology is directly responsible for employing more than 400,000 people, paying employees more than $24 billion, and transporting more than $135 billion in products around the world. In Washington State alone, more than 8,700 jobs have been created by the medical innovation industry with a payroll of $526 million and more than $2 billion in sales.
10.13.2011	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, introduced a bill today to rename the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Spokane as the “Mann-Grandstaff Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center.” “I am proud to introduce this bill, which will honor two of Spokane’s fallen warriors, Private First Class Joe Mann and Platoon Sergeant Bruce Grandstaff,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Both of these Eastern Washington heroes fought valiantly for our country and lost their lives in its defense. By renaming the V.A. Medical Center after them, we will pay homage to their unwavering commitment and valor and remind future generations of their incredible legacy.” Sen. Patty Murray (D-WA), Chairman of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs Committee, introduced companion legislation in the Senate today. “This honors not just one American hero, but two native sons of Washington who gave their lives fighting on behalf of our nation,” said Sen. Murray. “I applaud Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers for her work on this bill and am so grateful for the ultimate sacrifice of PFC Mann and Platoon Sergeant Grandstaff.” Private First Class Joe E. Mann and Platoon Sergeant Bruce A. Grandstaff were posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor for their gallantry in World War II and Vietnam, respectively. ###
10.05.2011	Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, received “Taxpayer Hero” status from the Council for Citizens Against Government Waste (CCAGW) as part of their 2010 Congressional Ratings released yesterday. “I am proud to be named a ‘Taxpayer Hero’ by this outstanding organization for taxpayer rights,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “The Council for Citizens Against Government Waste shares my commitment to cutting wasteful government spending, lowering the debt burden on our children and grandchildren, and supporting freedom – not bureaucracy – to grow our economy. I’ve enjoyed working with them – and I will continue to work with them – to create jobs and put our fiscal house in order.” “On behalf of taxpayers, we thank and applaud Taxpayer Heroes like Rep. McMorris Rodgers for their votes to cut wasteful spending, reduce taxes, and make government more accountable to taxpayers,” said CCAGW President Tom Schatz. The Council for Citizens Against Government Waste is the lobbying arm of Citizens Against Government Waste, the nation’s largest nonpartisan, nonprofit organization dedicated to eliminating waste, fraud, abuse, and mismanagement in government.
10.03.2011	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference and member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement after the Administration submitted three pending Free Trade Agreements (FTAs) – with Colombia, Panama and South Korea – to Congress today: “As we move forward in our effort to spur economic growth and strengthen American competitiveness, I am pleased that the Administration has finally decided to proceed with these long-delayed Free Trade Agreements. The pending FTAs with Colombia, Panama and South Korea will boost U.S. exports by nearly $13 billion annually, open new markets to American products, create jobs, and solidify strategic alliances. “In Washington state, one out of every three jobs is tied to international trade. Free trade is a fundamental component of the House Republicans’ Plan for America’s Job Creators, which, if enacted, will create nearly 250,000 new jobs at a time when our country needs it most.”
09.29.2011	“We Need to Get the Government Out of the Way andLet Our Job Creators Do Their Jobs” Spokane, WA – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) hosted a “Regulatory Roundtable” with Eastern Washington business leaders on how an assortment of government agencies is harming the region’s economy through burdensome regulations and how regulatory reform can be a spark for economic growth. The six business leaders came from Spokane, Colville, Walla Walla, and other local communities and represented a diverse group of industries, including agriculture, manufacturing, and health care. In her opening remarks, Rep. McMorris Rodgers noted, “President Reagan once summed up the government’s attitude toward the economy this way: ‘If it moves, tax it. If it keeps moving, regulate it. And if it stops moving, subsidize it.’ That’s true. And that’s why – more than any other reason – we’re suffering through the longest streak of high unemployment since the Great Depression and the largest national debt in our history. To revitalize our economy and preserve the American Dream, we need to stop putting burdens on America’s job creators. We need less taxation, less regulation, and less litigation. Basically, we need to get the government out of the way and let America’s job creators do their jobs.” The National Federation of Independent Business (NFIB) reports that regulations cost small businesses more than $1.75 trillion per year – more than 12 percent of America's entire economy. In addition, the Obama Administration is publicly considering 219 major new regulations – each of which, if implemented, would cost our economy $100 million or more. “Whether it’s farm dust regulations, forest-runoff regulations, or the new health care mandate, the fact is, every dollar that an employer has to spend on complying with government regulations is a dollar he could be spending to create jobs,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. The Congresswoman is an original cosponsor of nearly a dozen bills which offer regulatory relief, including HR. 10, the REINS Act; H.R. 2250, the EPA Regulatory Relief Act; HR. 2021, the Jobs Energy Permitting Act; H.R. 2541, the Silviculture Regulatory Consistency Act; and H.R. 1391, the Farm Dust Regulatory Prevention Act. Last week, the Congresswoman’s GOP Labs released an infographic documenting the negative impact of some of the Administration’s most egregious regulations. To see it, click here. A full list of today’s roundtable participants is below. Mr. Alan Gorst, Owner, Gorst ConstructionMr. Wes McCart, President, Stevens County Farm Bureau, FarmerMr. Duane Lucas Roberts, Director, Walla Walla ClinicMr. John Smith, Colville Chamber/EDCMr. Eric Bakken, 49 Degrees North Mountain ResortMr. Steve West, CEO, Columbia Cedar Timber Mill
09.29.2011	“Eastern Washington is Uniquely Positioned to Benefitfrom a ‘More of Everything’ Energy Strategy” Spokane, WA – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) continued her “Jobs and Energy Tour” of Eastern Washington by touring Avista, McKinstry, ReliOn, and the Upriver Dam today. At each stop, the Congresswoman discussed the future of energy policy with job creators and employees, and how Spokane can grow as a leader in this critical part of America’s economy. “Considering that energy prices have doubled in the past two years – and we import over half of our energy from foreign countries (many of them hostile to our interests) – we need a bold, comprehensive strategy to increase domestic energy production,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “By removing federal restrictions on domestic energy production, we can lower energy prices, achieve energy independence, and create millions of jobs.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers, a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, champions a “more of everything” energy strategy. She favors increasing domestic production of traditional fuels – such as oil and natural gas – while also increasing production of alternative energies – such as solar, wind, nuclear power, biofuels, and hydrogen fuel cells. As the founder of the Congressional Hydropower Caucus, she is also a leading champion of hydropower as a clean and reliable energy source. “As the home of a large and diverse supply of energy, Eastern Washington is uniquely positioned to benefit from a serious effort at energy independence. We’re also blessed with the greatest resource of all – the talent of an innovative workforce. With these Spokane-based companies in the lead, I’m excited by the future of American energy.”
09.27.2011	Promotes Renewable Energy atInnovative Colville Company Colville, WA – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) began her “Jobs and Energy Tour” of Eastern Washington with a speech at the Hearth & Home Technologies factory in Colville about the importance of biomass and other renewable energies. She joined other local leaders at the company’s event, “Growing a Cleaner, Greener Economy Utilizing Renewable Densified Biomass,” which showcased the company’s use of pellets as a form of green technology. “We live in a country with tremendous energy resources – including the greatest resource of all – the ingenuity of the free American mind,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “We should be using those resources to create more energy jobs and achieve energy independence. Biomass, in particular, is a great energy source. In Eastern Washington, we’ve seen how biomass can complement existing forestry infrastructure to create jobs and provide renewable, affordable energy. Led by innovative companies such as Hearth & Home Technologies, I’m excited that Eastern Washington will continue to take biomass to the next level.” Last year, Rep. McMorris Rodgers signed a letter to Nancy Sutley, Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) encouraging the CEQ to work with other federal agencies – especially the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) – in developing a “sensible, consistent, scientifically-based policy that recognizes the carbon-neutrality of biogenic sources.” In response, the EPA recently decided to exclude biomass from its list of regulated energy sources for the next three years. “While this is encouraging news, we still need a permanent ruling from the EPA,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Going forward, I will continue advocating for a permanent ruling to keep the biomass industry growing and thriving.”
09.26.2011	U.S. Has Already Contributed $100 Billion + to Bailouts;“We Cannot Take the ‘Too Big to Fail’ Philosophy to a Global Level” Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today after International Monetary Fund (IMF) Director Christine Lagarde distributed a document at an IMF steering committee meeting warning that the IMF’s growing participation in European bailouts means the organization will likely need to increase its global bailout fund – a fund to which U.S. taxpayers have already contributed over $100 billion: “At a time when the federal government is borrowing $5 billion every day on top of a $14 trillion national debt, we should not be funneling billions of dollars through the IMF to bail out Greece, Portugal, Ireland, and other wealthy European countries. The European Union was set up to be an economic competitor to the United States, and therefore, any bailout funds should come from the E.U., not the U.S. The global debt crisis was caused by too much spending and borrowing and that crisis will not be solved by more spending and borrowing. We cannot take the ‘too big to fail’ philosophy to a global level. The only thing ‘too big to fail’ is America itself.” The U.S. is the leading contributor to the IMF, providing the organization with 17.3 percent of its funding. Since the European debt crisis broke, the IMF has committed $336 billion to bailing out European governments. The Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung reports the IMF is hoping to increase its total financial resources by another $360 billion. On March 24, 2010, Rep. McMorris Rodgers was the first Member of Congress to publicly oppose U.S. involvement in a European bailout. Greece became the first country to receive an IMF bailout seven weeks later. On June 24, 2011, Rep. McMorris Rodgers and Sen. Jim DeMint (R-SC) introduced legislation that would rescind the IMF’s authority to spend up to $108 billion of U.S. taxpayer money that is currently available to fund these disastrous bailouts. A full compilation of the Congresswoman’s work on this issue can be found here.
09.22.2011	Washington, D.C. –Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, spoke on the House floor today to oppose a likely United Nations (U.N.) vote on Friday to formally recognize an independent Palestinian state. “As the U.N. considers recognizing an independent Palestinian state, it is more important now than ever that we stand up, speak out, and oppose this blatant attempt to circumvent direct talks with Israel,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “I’ve joined with many of my House colleagues in signing a letter to President Obama, urging his Administration to veto any U.N. resolution that grants Palestinian statehood without direct negotiation with Israel. Peace cannot be created or sustained through a single, unilateral decision from the U.N. I will continue to urge a U.N. veto, and I will stand – with tremendous pride and admiration – beside our friends in Israel.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers is a cosponsor of the United Nations Transparency, Accountability, and Reform Act. This bill would make U.S. contributions to the U.N voluntary, and allow the U.S. to choose what it funds at the U.N., and what it does not. “If the U.N. moves forward with recognizing a Palestinian state, we should send an unequivocal message to that body: The era of ‘no-strings-attached’ contributions has come to an end,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. To watch the Congresswoman’s floor speech, click here.
09.21.2011	Energy & Commerce Committee Approves Bills,Sending Them to House Floor Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, joined a majority of her Committee colleagues by voting for two bipartisan bills to create jobs and stop burdensome regulations: H.R. 2250, the EPA Regulatory Relief Act, and H.R. 2681, the Cement Sector Regulatory Relief Act. “There is a mindset in our nation’s capital that the best way to grow our economy is through more government spending,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “But where we really need more spending is from America’s jobs creators – specifically, changing their spending from complying with government regulations to hiring new employees. Whether it’s the Administration’s new energy regulations, new health care regulations, or new financial regulations, every dollar that a job creator has to spend complying with these new regulations is a dollar he could be using to create jobs. Today’s bills will block costly, unnecessary job-killing regulations, unleash the power of American free enterprise, and get our economy moving again.” H.R. 2250, the EPA Regulatory Relief Act, provides regulatory relief to industries and organizations by directing the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to reissue rules that are achievable in practice and less burdensome, consistent with President Obama’s Executive Order on Improving Regulation. This bill protects over 200,000 jobs that EPA’s boiler rule puts at risk. H.R. 2681, the Cement Sector Regulatory Relief Act, requires the EPA to set new emissions limits on cement manufacturing plants that are reasonable and achievable in the real world. As currently written, EPA’s cement rule threatens to shut down 20 percent of the nation’s cement manufacturing plants in the next two years, sending thousands of jobs permanently overseas. These bills will now move to the House floor.
09.20.2011	Successful Roundtable between House Republican Members & Medical Device Innovators on Need for FDA Regulatory Reform Washington, D.C.– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, hosted the first “Jobs and Innovation Forum” on Capitol Hill today. The event featured a roundtable discussion between House Republican Members and medical device innovators about the problems associated with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA)’s regulatory process and how to improve that process. The event – which was webcast live and included public participation through Facebook and Twitter – also included a demo of the innovators’ latest technologies. “With unemployment stuck above 9 percent and the threat of a double-dip recession increasing, we need to unleash the power of American free enterprise to revitalize our job base – especially in high-paying industries such as medical technology where America has traditionally been the world leader,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “As we heard from the medical innovators at today’s forum, current FDA policies are threatening our leadership. Unless we reverse the FDA’s hostile regulatory approach to cutting-edge innovations, we will continue to lose high-tech medical device jobs to Europe and Asia – jobs that should be staying here in America.” In the United States, medical technology is directly responsible for employing more than 400,000 people, paying employees more than $24 billion, and transporting more than $135 billion in products around the United States and abroad. In Eastern Washington, more than 8,700 jobs have been created by the medical innovation industry with a payroll of $526 million and more than $2 billion in sales in Washington State alone. “To maintain America’s leadership in this critical field, Congress must eliminate the 2.3 percent tax on medical devices scheduled to go into effect in 2013, curb unnecessary regulations and make the FDA more efficient so that innovators can make their life-saving and life-improving devices readily available in the domestic market,”said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. The innovators at today’s forum were Mr. Alex Lukianov (Chief Executive Office, NuVasive), Mr. Steve Ferguson (Chairman, Cook Group Inc.), Mr. Rick Packer (Chief Executive Officer, ZOLL Medical), and Mr. John Friel (former Chief Executive Officer, MEDRAD) The Members of Congress who attended were Rep. McMorris Rodgers, Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy (R-CA), Health Subcommittee Chairman Joseph Pitts (R-PA), Rep. Charles Bass (R-NH), Rep. Brett Guthrie (R-KY), Rep. Lee Terry (R-NE), and Rep. Leonard Lance (R-NJ).
09.12.2011	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today to mark the ten-year anniversary of the September 11th terrorist attacks: “Ten years ago, our country was forever changed by the attacks on the World Trade Center, the Pentagon, and Flight 93. Today, we remember the thousands of victims who lost their lives and honor the heroes who selflessly worked to save those inside. We should never forget the courage, bravery, and compassion of the human spirit that was exhibited that day. “Ten years later, we still stand firm in our resolve to fight the war on terror and eliminate terrorist groups around the world. Our top priority must continue to be protecting the security and freedom of our country and citizens. “I want to thank the men and women who serve in our military, especially those stationed at Fairchild Air Force Base. They continue to play a valuable role in our nation’s fight against terror and are helping to keep us safe. “It is also important to honor our community’s first responders – our police, firefighters, and paramedics. They risk their lives daily to keep us safe and we must never forget to show them how grateful we are for their work and sacrifice.”
09.08.2011	“President and Congress Must WorkTogether to Get America Back to Work” “We Need More Pro-Growth Policies,Less Pro-Government Policies” Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement tonight after President Obama addressed a joint session of Congress about the economy: “While I am encouraged by some portions of the President’s speech – and I remain hopeful that tonight will be a cornerstone in getting Congress and the President on the same page in dealing with our nation’s challenges – I would have preferred to see the President display a greater commitment to using free-market solutions to revive our economy and create middle-class jobs. “As we saw on November 2nd of last year – and in polls throughout this year – the American people are not happy with the status quo. They are tired of the failed ‘spend, borrow, and bailout’ policies that got us into this crisis and continue to make it worse. They know we need to create a climate where small business owners have the confidence to grow and create jobs again. “When I met with job creators in Eastern Washington during the last five weeks, I asked them how we can create that climate. Their message was clear: If we want to grow jobs in the private sector, we need to shrink the size of the public sector. We need less government spending. We need less government borrowing. And we definitely need less government regulation. “House Republicans are listening to the American people and America’s job creators. We’ve already passed fourteen jobs bills this year. The Senate has rejected all but one of them. We’ve also laid out a bold legislative agenda for the fall focused on tax reform, cutting spending, unlocking the credit markets, repealing job-killing health care and energy regulations, and expanding domestic energy production.“Now is the time to advance that agenda. I am eager to work with the President and Congressional leaders in both parties to find bipartisan solutions to get America back to work, pay down our debt, and keep the American Dream alive.” To listen to an audio recording of this release, click here.
09.08.2011	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, voiced support for two pieces of legislation, the EPA Regulatory Relief Act (H.R. 2250) and the Cement Sector Regulatory Relief Act (H.R. 2681) during an Energy and Power Subcommittee hearing today. These bipartisan bills would reverse a collection of job-crushing regulations proposed by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and ensure that the EPA develop practical, achievable standards for industrial, commercial and institutional boilers and incinerators. “The anxiety caused by the federal government’s regulatory overreach is smothering any possible chance of an economic recovery,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers in her opening statement to the Subcommittee. “According to a study conducted by the Council of Industrial Boiler Owners, if left final, every $1 billion spent on mandatory upgrades to comply with the Boiler MACT rules puts 16,000 jobs at risk. The full cost of the Boiler MACT rules alone could be $14.4 billion – which puts 224,000 jobs at risk.” On March 21, 2011, the EPA published four highly-complex rules setting new standards for more than 200,000 boilers, process heaters and incinerators. In response to these new regulations, Rep. McMorris Rodgers joined seven other members of the House Energy and Commerce Committee to introduce the EPA Regulatory Relief Act. This was the first committee hearing on the legislation since it was introduced in June. “The Boiler MACT and Cement MACT regulations – if not changed – will have a disastrous effect on our economy. It is imperative we pass this legislation to spur economic growth, help job creators, and implement real, sustainable regulatory reform.” To view the EPA Regulatory Relief Act, click here.
09.02.2011	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement today after President Obama withdrew the Environmental Protection Agency’s proposed ozone standards – a controversial proposal that the agency itself admitted would impose annual costs of up to $90 billion and the Manufacturers Alliance estimated would cost 7.3 million jobs by 2020. “I applaud the President’s decision to abandon these damaging regulations which would have cost millions of jobs in an already struggling economy. When I met with job creators in Eastern Washington during the August Work Period, their number one concern was the federal government’s mounting regulatory burden. The cost of these regulations is stifling job creation and stopping business expansion. The best way Congress and the White House can encourage economic growth is to reduce regulations, encourage innovation, and whenever possible, promote free-market solutions.” Earlier today, the Labor Department announced that the U.S. economy didn’t create a single net job last month. The national unemployment rate has been above 8 percent for 30 straight months – the longest streak since the Great Depression.
09.02.2011	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today after the Labor Department announced that the economy didn’t add a single net job last month. “Even though it’s been more than two years since the recession officially ended, our economy continues to be weighed down by too much government. If we want to grow jobs in the private sector, we need to shrink the size of the public sector. We need less government spending, less borrowing, and less regulation. House Republicans have a plan to get our economy moving again. We’ve already passed fourteen jobs bills this year. The Senate has rejected all but one of them. We’ve also laid out a bold legislative agenda for the fall. I encourage the President and the Senate to work with us and get America back to work.” The national unemployment rate is 9.1 percent. It’s been above 8 percent for 30 straight months – the longest streak since the Great Depression. The average person’s stay on unemployment is more than twice as high than at any point in the past 50 years.
09.01.2011	Spokane – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) hosted a successful town hall meeting in Spokane today. The event – which was attended by hundreds of people from the Spokane area – fostered an important exchange of ideas on critical issues, including jobs, government spending, and health care. This was Rep. McMorris Rodgers’ sixth public event in the last two weeks. “Looking back on my life, I truly believe that I’ve lived the American Dream,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “And that’s why I’ve always seen my number one goal in public life as preserving that dream for our children and grandchildren. Like many of you, I believe the American Dream is in danger. We are experiencing our longest streak of high unemployment since the Great Depression. Every day, the federal government is adding $5 billion to the nation’s $14 trillion debt. For the sake of our economy today – and for the sake of the American Dream tomorrow – we need to stop the Big Government policies that are stifling job creation and get our fiscal house in order.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers voted against the failed “spend, borrow, and bailout” policies which caused the economic crisis and continue to block recovery. She voted against the Wall Street bailout, the $787 billion economic “stimulus” bill, and the $2.3 trillion health care law. As part of the new Republican House Majority, Rep. McMorris Rodgers voted for the Budget Control Act and the “Ryan Plan” to prevent tax increases and cut government spending. She is also one of the strongest advocates in Congress for a balanced budget amendment. “The best way to get our fiscal house in order is to cut government spending,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Washington has a spending problem; not a revenue problem. And until spending gets under control, job creators will continue to hold back – knowing that every dollar the federal government borrows has to be paid back – either through higher taxes or inflation.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers’ other public events this month were in Colville, Walla Walla, Clarkston, Davenport, and Newport.
08.25.2011	
08.11.2011	Committed to Protecting Seniors from Unfair Cutbacks Spokane, WA – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) led two successful events today with members of Spokane’s senior citizen community. As a strong advocate for seniors, Rep. McMorris Rodgers assured the community that she would continue to protect them from any unfair government cutbacks. “As you all know, there is a debate in Congress on how we can reduce our massive budget deficit and get our national debt under control,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “As this process continues, please know that our seniors will be protected, and the Medicare you have now will continue without change – whether Republicans or Democrats are in control.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers spoke with seniors during a tour of Spokane’s Northeast Community Center and then led a seniors stakeholder meeting in her office to discuss the most important issues facing Eastern Washington’s seniors. “The greatest generation our country has ever seen is getting older and we owe it to them to ensure that the sacrifices they made were worthwhile,” she said. “I am committed to honoring your hard work and the sacrifices you’ve made. That’s why I am fighting to protect Medicare, preserve Social Security, strengthen community pharmacies, and ensure choices for affordable long-term care. It’s with these priorities that I will continue to represent you in Congress.”
08.08.2011	“Now is the time to put politics aside, and do what’s best for the country. Congress and the President must do more” Spokane, WA – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement after Standard and Poor announced that they are lowering the U.S. long-term credit rating from AAA to AA+. "Friday’s announcement is no surprise to those of us who have been warning about the consequences of record spending, borrowing and deficits throughout the years. “I have a solid and consistent record voting against record spending and borrowing by both parties — including the $700 billion bank and auto bailouts, and President Obama’s $800 billion stimulus package. “Last Monday, I supported and the House passed, the Budget Control Act, a debt ceiling agreement that cut $2.4 trillion in government spending and implemented spending controls without raising taxes. “The Act also calls for a vote on the Balanced Budget Amendment, and it’s vitally important that Congress seize this opportunity to pass the Amendment and send it to the states. “Earlier this year the House passed a budget that cut $6 trillion in spending over the next decade, however the Senate has refused to act on the measure. “Moving forward, I will work closely with the newly formed bi-partisan debt commission to identify more specific areas that we can cut and other reforms that may be instituted to get this crisis under control. The bipartisan debt commission should look for savings beyond the minimum of $1.5 trillion required in the law to further reductions and elimination of our deficits. “I am also calling on President Obama to join us in meeting this challenge. Solving the deficit crisis will strengthen our leadership around the world and free our children and grandchildren from the burden of a crushing debt. Now is the time to put politics aside and do what’s best for the country.” ###
08.04.2011	Spokane, WA – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), a member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement today after Judge James Redden ruled that the federal government’s current program to strike a balance between the Northwest’s hydroelectric dams and the protection of local salmon – known as the “Biological Opinion” – violates the Endangered Species Act: “I am extremely disappointed with Judge Redden’s ruling which threatens to preempt years of hard work by our stakeholders in order to serve a narrow special interest. The BiOp represents a longstanding consensus by experts at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, public utilities, municipalities, and tribes. Contrary to the Judge’s opinion, we’ve seen record fish runs in many parts of the Snake River as a result of the measures put in place at a cost of hundreds of millions of dollars. The fact of the matter is, dam removal should not be an option. “I will continue to review Judge Redden’s order in detail and work with the appropriate federal agencies as they begin trying to implement this misguided order.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers is a strong champion of hydropower and warned about the rising costs of the Endangered Species Act in her recent op-ed, Dams Needed for Flood Control, Affordable Energy. To read that op-ed, click here.
08.01.2011	Bipartisan Deal Cuts Spending &Raises Debt Ceiling Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, voted in favor of theBudget Control Act today. This bipartisan agreement – supported by President Obama and the Congressional leadership of both parties – would raise the debt ceiling, cut government spending, and advance the cause of the balanced budget amendment – all without job-killing tax hikes. “At this time last year, Congress was approving historic spending increases and record deficits. Now, with today’s deal, Congress is passing historic spending cuts and record cuts to the national debt. Is this a ‘perfect deal?’ As Speaker Boehner has said many times, ‘no.’ It can’t be perfect when House Republicans control only one-half of one-third of the government. But it’s another big step forward in our efforts to bring fiscal sanity to our nation and to preserve the American Dream for our children and grandchildren.” The Budget Control Act raises the debt ceiling in two phases – first by $900 billion in return for $917 billion in spending cuts over the next 10 years. An additional $1.5 trillion increase in the debt ceiling would be contingent on one of two things: One, passage of a spending reduction package issued by a special twelve-member Commission that would be set up by the bill and charged with making cuts greater than the requested increase of $1.5 trillion. Or two, passage of a balanced budget amendment by both Houses of Congress, sending it to the states. Otherwise, across-the-board cuts worth $1.2 trillion over the next decade will automatically take place along with the hike in the debt ceiling.
07.30.2011	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today after voting for the Budget Control Act. “The Budget Control Act takes a balanced approach to an urgent issue – preventing the United States from suffering a default. This is the second time in a week the U.S. House has passed legislation to raise the debt ceiling while also making historic spending cuts. The Senate has yet to pass a single bill. And the only bills that have passed, the President has threatened to veto. “President Obama should realize that this bill ends the crisis and puts us on a long-term path towards continual budget savings and a winding down of our deficits. The crisis atmosphere in Washington, manufactured by the Administration, should end now so Congress and the American people can return to work on the serious problems confronting our economy and our nation. “We are running out of time and we are running out of money. For the sake of our country, I encourage the President and the Senate Democrats to help us move forward.” The Budget Control Act raises the debt ceiling by $900 billion in return for spending cuts totaling more than $917 billion over the next 10 years, including $22 billion in Fiscal Year 2012 – all without raising taxes. An additional increase in the debt ceiling would be contingent on two things: First, passage of the spending reduction recommendations issued by a special twelve-member Commission that would be set up by the bill and charged with making additional cuts to the deficit that are greater than the requested increase in the debt ceiling. Second, passage of a Balanced Budget Amendment by both Houses of Congress, sending it to the states. “I’m excited that the House will have its first vote on a Balanced Budget Amendment since 1995,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “That’s the ‘game-changer’ we need to fundamentally change the way the federal government does business.”
07.29.2011	Washington, D.C.– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Co-Chair of the Congressional Down Syndrome Caucus, introduced two pieces of legislation today to take Down syndrome research to the next level: The Trisomy 21 Research Resource Act of 2011 and the Trisomy 21 Centers of Excellence Act of 2011. Despite the prevalence of Down syndrome, research for a treatment and cure has lagged behind other medical conditions. These bills would ensure that Down syndrome research remains on par with the research infrastructure of other diseases. “As the mom of a child with Down syndrome, I am forever grateful to the people in the disabilities community that welcomed my family with open arms,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Through them, I’ve learned about the potential of Down syndrome research – and not just for those who have Down syndrome, but also for those who have other conditions, as well. Our bill will increase the amount of Down syndrome research and the quality of that research. And by taking that research to the next level, we may generate breakthroughs for those who suffer from Alzheimer’s, autism, and other neurological disorders.” Today, nearly 400,000 Americans live with Down syndrome. In 2000, Congress passed the Children’s Health Act which, among other things, authorized research for a number of conditions including juvenile diabetes, Fragile X, asthma, epilepsy, autism, and traumatic brain injuries. Down syndrome, however, was not included. H.R. 2696, the Trisomy 21 Research Resource Act of 2011 authorizes current efforts already underway by national patient advocacy organizations, together with the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, to establish three research databases that will provide the research community with access to information that has been otherwise hard to obtain. The second bill, H.R. 2695, the Trisomy 21 Centers of Excellence Act of 2011, recognizes six centers of excellence around the nation that will be dedicated to conducting and coordinating translational research. Since individuals with Down syndrome are also afflicted with a number of other medical conditions, the enhanced research will not just benefit individuals with Down syndrome, but also millions of others who are afflicted with other conditions.
07.29.2011	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), a member of House Energy and Commerce Committee, joined her colleagues, Rep. Bobby Rush (D-IL) and Rep. Jo Ann Emerson (R-MO), to introduce the 340B Improvement Act of 2011 yesterday. This bipartisan bill would extend the 340B drug discount program to in-patient prescriptions – providing significant savings to patients, hospitals, the federal government, and state Medicaid programs. “At a time when our nation’s hospitals are struggling to treat the growing number of uninsured and underinsured patients, we need smart, common-sense solutions to make health care more affordable and increase the quality of care,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “The 340B drug discount program is part of that solution because it already saves the federal and state governments precious health care dollars. Our bill will extend that program, benefiting over 30 safety net hospitals in Washington State and hundreds throughout the country.” Since its inception in 1992, the 340B drug discount program has enabled eligible hospitals, community health centers and other safety net providers to access discounts on outpatient pharmaceuticals so they can continue to treat low-income and uninsured patients. Currently, the program only applies to outpatient prescriptions. The 340B Improvement Act would extend the discount to prescriptions obtained when a patient is admitted to a hospital. “We commend Representatives McMorris Rodgers, Rush and Emerson for their strong support of our hospitals that provide the bulk of the nation’s charity care,” said Ted Slafsky, Executive Director of Safety Net Hospitals for Pharmaceutical Access (SNHPA). “Improvements to the 340B program will be of enormous help to our hospitals that are bound by law to treat every patient that comes through their doors seeking medical treatment.” SNHPA is an organization of over 700 hospitals with a mission to increase the affordability and accessibility of pharmaceutical care for the nation's poor and underserved populations.
07.27.2011	Landmark Project Will Create Jobs &Increase Energy Security Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, voted for H.R. 1938, The North American-Made Energy Security Act today. The House approved this bill which will expedite a final decision on the Keystone XL pipeline – a landmark project that would allow 1.3 million barrels of Canadian oil to flow into the U.S. market every day and create more than 100,000 American jobs. “At a time when energy prices are near an all-time high and we are still suffering from the longest streak of high unemployment since the Great Depression, Congress needs to get serious about domestic energy security,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers, an original cosponsor of today’s legislation. “Our bill will create energy jobs and reduce our dangerous dependence on oil from Venezuela and the Middle East.” The North American-Made Energy Security Act would require the President to issue a final Presidential Permit decision on the Keystone XL pipeline by November 1, 2011. “Unless we take immediate action to expand the Keystone pipeline, we risk losing valuable oil to China and other energy-hungry nations that are not creating the same unnecessary roadblocks,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Our bill will remove those roadblocks promptly and increase America’s energy security and national security.”
07.26.2011	House Will Hold Vote on Thursday Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, announced today that the U.S. House will vote on the Balanced Budget Amendment on Thursday. The Congresswoman made the announcement at this morning’s House Republican Leadership press conference. A transcript of her remarks is below. “I’m excited that the House will be voting on the Balanced Budget Amendment on Thursday. It will be the first time that Congress has voted on the Balanced Budget Amendment since 1997. In one of the polls that was done last week, it showed that 74 percent of Americans support this amendment. And what was most impressive in the poll is that two-thirds of Democrats support a Balanced Budget Amendment. There is broad, bipartisan support for moving forward on a Balanced Budget Amendment, and we’re going to be taking action this week. “Thomas Jefferson – after they’d finished writing the Constitution – said that if he could make one change, it would be to limit the federal government’s ability to borrow money. Over 200 years later, I’m excited that we are going to make Thomas Jefferson’s dream a reality.” To watch the Congresswoman’s remarks, click here.
07.22.2011	Through IMF, U.S. Taxpayers Contribute toGreek Bailouts Costing $228 Billion Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today after global leaders negotiated a second bailout of Greece, bringing the total cost of the Greek bailout to $228 billion. Considering that the International Monetary Fund (IMF) is heavily involved in the bailout – and U.S. taxpayers are the largest contributors to the IMF – scarce U.S. funds will be used to bail out the failed socialist policies of a wealthy country. “At a time when President Obama is seeking to raise the U.S. debt limit by $2.4 trillion and increase the debt burden of every American family by $20,000, we should not be funneling billions of dollars to bail out Greece, Portugal, Spain, and other wealthy European countries. The European Union was set up to be an economic competitor of the United States, and therefore, any bailout funds should come from the EU, not the US. We cannot take the ‘too big to fail’ philosophy to a global level. The only thing ‘too big to fail’ is America itself.” On June 23, 2011, Rep. McMorris Rodgers and Sen. Jim DeMint (R-SC) introduced legislation that would rescind the IMF’s authority to spend up to $108 billion of US taxpayer money that is currently available to fund these disastrous bailouts. According to the Washington Post, “Many economists have argued that [Greece] is insolvent and that programs to merely lend it more money without somehow cutting the overall debt are destined to fail.” America is facing a similar situation. Last year, the EU and the IMF orchestrated a $158 billion bailout of Greece. The total cost of the Greek bailouts has now risen to 69% of Greece’s economy. Ireland and Portugal have also received bailouts topping the $100 billion mark and many fear Spain and Italy are next. A full compilation of the Congresswoman’s work on this issue can be found here.
07.14.2011	Renews Demand for Fiscal Accountability atHouse Leadership Press Conference Washington, DC –Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, strongly advocated for a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution today at a House Republican Leadership press conference in support of the measure. “Even before I arrived in Congress, I called for a balanced budget amendment, and today I am more convinced than ever that we need this amendment to bring spending discipline to Congress, put our economy on a solid footing, and reduce the debt burden on our children and grandchildren,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. The federal government has run a budget deficit for 47 of the last 51 years. According to the Obama Administration, the deficit will be $1.6 trillion this year – an all-time record. The national debt currently stands at $14.5 trillion. “Forty-nine states require a balanced budget by law,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “There’s no reason the federal government can’t do the same.” In 1995, a balanced budget amendment passed the House but failed to meet the two-thirds requirement in the Senate by a single vote. The U.S. House is expected to vote on a balanced budget amendment on July 20.
07.08.2011	“Unemployment Shouldn’t Be Rising2 Years After Recession Ended;America Can Do Better” Obama Record: 2.5 Million Lost Jobs,$3 Trillion in Debt Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today after the Labor Department announced that the national unemployment rate rose from 9.1% to 9.2% in June. “Today’s report is more evidence that President Obama’s ‘spend, borrow and bailout’ policies have clearly failed, and we need to lead America in a new direction. To grow jobs in the private sector, we need to shrink the size of the public sector. That means less government spending, less government borrowing, and less government regulation – especially in our energy sector where burdensome regulations are stifling domestic production and job growth. House Republicans have a plan to get our economy moving again and create middle-class jobs. Now we just need the President to work with us to implement it.” Since President Obama took office, 2.5 million Americans have lost their jobs while the national debt has surged by $3 trillion. The national unemployment rate has been above 8% for 28 straight months – the longest streak since the Great Depression. The average person’s stay on unemployment is more than twice as high than at any point in the past 50 years. “Over three years into Barack Obama’s presidency, the national unemployment rate still continues to rise. That’s unacceptable. America can do better.”
07.08.2011	Washington, D.C.– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers, Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, announced the winners of the 2011 House GOP New Media Challenge at a Conference meeting today. Rep. John Fleming (LA-04), the reigning Champion, took first place in the seven-week competition, which generated 300,000 new Facebook likes, Twitter followers, and YouTube views. “I applaud John Fleming, Joe Walsh, and Mike Conaway for their outstanding performance in this year’s Challenge,” said Vice Chair McMorris Rodgers. “The outstanding work of our entire Conference gives me great hope that House Republicans are keeping the pedal to the metal in the digital space.” Rep. Fleming (LA-04), the two-time Champion offered this advice to his colleagues: “It’s as simple as listening and engaging with your constituents. A little friendly competition goes a long way to driving innovation, especially as we seek to communicate our positive vision.” Rep. Joe Walsh (IL-08), a freshmen lawmaker, took second place. He said, “The best government is one that is closest to the people. New Media is an important tool to stay in touch with the concerns and sentiments of the people I represent, and I’ll continue to find new ways of doing so.” Rep. Mike Conaway (TX-11) rounded out the Challenge by winning the bronze bracket. He commented, “New and social media offer a way to connect with constituents around the clock. It’s incredibly useful to be able to communicate directly and in real-time with my constituency.” “With more than 80% of our Conference, and 90% of the freshmen class on Twitter, Facebook, and YouTube, this annual Challenge helps us better equip Members with innovative ways to use these tools,” said Vice Chair McMorris Rodgers. Altogether, 106 Members and Committees participated in the Challenge. The breakdown of participants was 54 freshman lawmakers, 44 continuing Members, and 8 committees. To see the final brackets click here. For background purposes, the official rules can be viewed here. A staff debrief will be held in the coming weeks in the “GOP Labs” series to share best practices and innovative tactics.
06.29.2011	Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), a member of the House Technology Operations Team, released the following statement today after Chairman of the House Technology Operations Team Jason Chaffetz (R-UT) and Chairman of the House Administration Committee Dan Lungren (R-CA) announced that the House’s ban on using Skype and ooVoo video teleconference (VTC) calls has been lifted, allowing better communications between Members of Congress and their constituents. “As we’ve recently seen with other initiatives, the new House Majority is committed to effectively using new technologies to conduct the people’s business and tap into the great ideas and wisdom of the American people” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Today’s decision permitting VTC calls is part of that commitment. Now that I can use Skype and ooVoo in my official office, I will be better able to communicate with my constituents and solicit their feedback, while also saving precious taxpayer dollars.” In April 2010, Rep. McMorris Rodgers signed onto a letter to then-Speaker Nancy Pelosi calling on the House to ease restrictions on the use of video teleconferencing. Rep. McMorris Rodgers is Co-Chair of the Republican New Media Caucus. A list of her New Media accomplishments can be found here.
06.24.2011	Legislation Would Block IMF From Using $108 Billion in U.S. Taxpayer Money for Growing Bailouts Vice Chair Will be on Kudlow Report at 7:30 PM EST Tonight toDiscuss EU Debt Crisis & U.S. Debt Negotiations Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, and Sen. Jim DeMint (R-SC) introduced legislation today that would stop the Obama Administration’s costly bailouts of Greece and other European nations. Since the bailout money is being dispensed through the International Monetary Fund (IMF), their bill would rescind the IMF’s authority to spend up to $108 billion of U.S. taxpayer money which was made available to fund these disastrous bailouts. “At a time when the federal government is borrowing $5 billion every day on top of a $14 trillion national debt, I am gravely concerned by America’s growing involvement in the ‘gathering storm’ of European bailouts,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “The European debt crisis was caused by too much spending and borrowing and that crisis will not be solved by more spending and borrowing. A ‘Euro-TARP’ is the wrong approach because it's creating a ‘moral hazard’ that will lead to larger counties — particularly Spain and Italy — standing in line for U.S. tax dollars tomorrow. America should have no part in it.” “We haven’t even begun to seriously address our own economic difficulties, so it makes no sense to continue bailing out failing European countries,” said Sen. DeMint. “If we don’t reverse our reckless fiscal course, America will be the one in need of a bailout. We need to stop the spending, stop the debt, and pass a balanced budget amendment.” “American taxpayers have seen more bailouts than they can stomach, and the last thing they should have to worry about are their hard-earned tax dollars being used to rescue a foreign government,” said Sen. John Cornyn (R-TX) who introduced the Senate bill with Sen. DeMint. In 2009, the Democratic Congress approved the Obama Administration’s request to increase U.S. funding to the IMF by $108 billion. Republicans opposed the measure. Today’s bill rescinds that authorization, returns any unobligated money to the U.S. General Fund, and specifies that the money be used for deficit reduction. The House bill number is H.R. 2313. The European Union charter requires that every EU member have a debt-to-GDP ratio lower than 60 percent and a budget deficit below 3 percent. Virtually none of the EU members meet that standard. Since the European debt crisis broke in early 2010, the IMF has committed $353 billion to bailing out European governments, although most of that money hasn’t been dispensed yet. The U.S. is the leading funder of the IMF. On March 24, 2010, Rep. McMorris Rodgers was the first Member of Congress to publicly oppose U.S. involvement in a European bailout. Greece became the first country to receive an IMF bailout seven weeks later. A full compilation of the Congresswoman’s work on this issue can be found here.
06.23.2011	Washington, DC – Representatives Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and Donna Edwards (D-MD), Co-Chairs of the Afghan Women’s Task Force, released a joint statement following President Obama’s remarks concerning the U.S. drawdown in Afghanistan last night. “As our armed forces begin to draw down in Afghanistan, it is critical that the United States engage directly with Afghan leaders and the international community to ensure women play a meaningful role in the Afghan Peace and Reintegration Plan. We share the concerns of Afghanistan’s female Members of Parliament, civic, and business leaders that a US drawdown could leave a vacuum where Afghan women see their rights trampled in a government transition. This would eliminate the tenuous gains Afghan women have made over the last decade and is unacceptable. We urge the Obama Administration to not only protect the rights of Afghan women in the upcoming peace process, but to pressure all involved parties to allow Afghan women to advocate on their own behalf.” As the transition commences, the Afghan Women’s Task Force will focus on mentoring programs for Afghanistan’s female Members of Parliament, prospective elected officials, and civic and business leaders.
06.23.2011	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, led 14 Republican women Members on the House Floor for a GOP Women’s Special Order Tuesday night. The Special Order, entitled, “I Am a Republican Woman,” highlighted Members’ backgrounds, their personal stories and policy objectives, and the Republican agenda to create jobs. “While our backgrounds and professions may be different, one thing is not: we are all conservative reformers – committed to leaving America better for our children and grandchildren than it was for us,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Women are at the center of this debate, and House Republican women are committed to leading it.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers and her House Republican colleagues emphasized that women play an integral role in the U.S. economy: they start two out of three new businesses, which generate nearly $2.5 trillion in revenue a year; manage 83% of household income; and comprise the vast majority of America’s health care providers. They focused on the House Republican Plan for America’s Job Creators and the need to empower small businesses, spur economic growth, and get Americans back to work. “From the fruit stand in Kettle Falls to the halls of Congress in Washington, D.C., I am here because I refuse to let the American Dream be threatened,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “We are on the road to economic recovery, and the House Republican women are committed to ensuring that we get there.” Also on the House Floor were Representatives Sandy Adams (R-FL), Judy Biggert (R-IL), Diane Black (R-TN), Ann Marie Buerkle (R-NY), Renee Ellmers (R-NC), Virginia Foxx (R-NC), Vicky Hartzler (R-MO), Jaime Herrera Beutler (R-WA), Lynn Jenkins (R-KS), Kristi Noem (R-SD), Martha Roby (R-AL), Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) and Jean Schmidt (R-OH). To watch Rep. McMorris Rodgers’s remarks on the House Floor, please visit her YouTube page here.
06.22.2011	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), member of the House Energy & Commerce Committee, released the following statement today after the Associated Press revealed that a glitch in last year’s health care law “would let several million middle-class people get nearly free insurance meant for the poor, a twist government number crunchers say they discovered only after the complex bill was signed.” “During last year’s health care debate, then-Speaker Pelosi famously said that ‘we have to pass the bill so you can find out what’s in it.’ This new AP report is further evidence that last year’s health care will be even costlier and more damaging that anyone could have imagined. Medicaid, in particular, is turning into a disaster. Governors all across the country are warning about a fiscal crisis caused by federally-imposed Medicaid mandates. We need to give Governors the flexibility they need to keep costs down while ensuring the program is viable for those who truly need it – the poor, the elderly, and those with disabilities.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers is one of the leading advocates in Congress for Medicaid reform. On May 3, 2011, Rep. McMorris Rodgers and Rep. Phil Gingrey (R-GA) introduced The State Flexibility Act to repeal the Medicaid Maintenance of Effort (MOE) requirements in the stimulus bill and The Patient Protection Act. The MOE prohibits states from adjusting their eligibility for Medicaid prior to the program’s explosive expansion scheduled for 2014 – also a product of last year’s health care law. The bipartisan National Governors Association calls MOE reform one of their top priorities for Congress this year. The StateFlexibility Act has passed the House Health Subcommittee.
06.22.2011	Washington, D.C. –Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and seven other members of the House Energy & Commerce Committee introduced the EPA Regulatory Relief Act today. This bipartisan bill would aid job creators by directing the Environmental Protection Agency to develop better standards for industrial, commercial, and institutional boilers and incinerators, grant the EPA more time to develop those standards, and grant companies more time to comply with them. “With the EPA Regulatory Relief Act, we are giving the EPA the time it needs – the time it has requested – to address difficult technical issues and develop rules that are workable in the real world,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers and the other members in a statement. “Likewise, businesses, institutions, and facilities need adequate time to finance the new monitoring and control equipment that will be required to meet the new standards, to obtain necessary regulatory approvals, and to design, procure, install, test, train personnel and start up equipment. Without regulatory relief, EPA’s current rules endanger hundreds of thousands of jobs nationwide by forcing plant shutdowns and relocation of American manufacturing and jobs overseas.” On Mar. 21, 2011, the EPA published four highly-complex rules setting new standards for more than 200,000 boilers, process heaters, and incinerators. The Council of Industrial Boiler Owners estimates that the capital costs of those rules will exceed $14 billion and put 224,000 jobs at risk. Similarly, the American Forest and Paper Association predicts costs could range from $5-7 billion for the forest products industry alone. In addition to Rep. McMorris Rodgers, the original cosponsors of today’s bill are Reps. Morgan Griffith (R-VA), G.K. Butterfield (D-NC), John Barrow (D-GA), Jim Matheson (D-UT), Pete Olson (R-TX), Mike Ross (D-AR), and Steve Scalise (R-LA). To view the EPA Regulatory Relief Act, click here.
06.16.2011	“Afghan Women Leaders Hold Keys to Success" Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) led a group of Members of Congress and influential leaders for the official launch of the Afghan Women’s Task Force yesterday. As Co-Chair of the new organization, Rep. McMorris Rodgers joined Rep. Donna Edwards (D-MD) to host a very successful and timely roundtable discussion on protecting women’s roles in Afghanistan – especially in preparation for the transition to Afghan-led security next month. “This is a critical time for U.S. decision makers to interact directly with Afghan leaders to ensure women’s meaningful inclusion in the Afghan Peace and Reintegration Plan, in addition to the long-term stabilization of Afghanistan,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “And it’s the women that hold these keys to success. This is not just about women’s rights, but human rights – and the belief that all of us have been bestowed with certain universal freedoms.” “After multiple visits to Afghanistan, I am convinced that the Afghanistan Peace and Reintegration Program must include women and take their interests into account. This will require a concerted effort from all participating parties, including the international community,” said Rep. Edwards. “I look forward to continuing to work with Members of Congress, the State Department, and Afghan women leaders to make sure the Peace and Reintegration Program meets the needs of all Afghans.” As the transition commences, the Afghan Women’s Task Force will focus on mentoring programs for Afghanistan’s female Members of Parliament, prospective elected officials, and civic and business leaders. The discussion included representatives from the Institute for Inclusive Security, the U.S.-Afghan Women’s Council, the Women’s Democracy Network, the U.S. Institute of Peace, the American University of Afghanistan, the International Republican Institute, the National Democratic Institute, the Afghan Independent Human Rights Commission, the State Department and Women’s Policy, Inc. “We’re really looking forward to having a forum in which we can engage in this very important ongoing dialogue,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “And we will do everything we can to promote the strength and success of Afghan women both here and abroad.” Please visit the Afghan Women’s Task Force Facebook page here.
06.14.2011	Credit Rating Agency’s OutlookHighlights Needs for Bipartisan Debt Reduction Plan Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today after the Moody’s credit rating agency warned that the U.S. government’s credit rating could be downgraded. “One day after President Obama met with House Republicans and pledged to work with us in a bipartisan fashion to get our fiscal house in order, Moody’s warning is fresh reminder that federal spending and borrowing are out-of-control and we are rapidly nearing a tipping point that could have devastating effects on our economy. Raising the debt ceiling without significant cuts in government spending and fundamental budget reform would be the height of irresponsibility. Not only would it increase the uncertainty that job creators are currently experiencing, it would also create an even bigger debt crisis for the next generation. For the sake of today’s economy and the future of the American Dream, we need a bold, comprehensive plan to get our debt under control, and we need it urgently.” After yesterday’s White House meeting, Rep. McMorris Rodgers joined other House Republican leaders at a press conference. To watch her remarks, click here. Video of the Congresswoman’s remarks was included in the Associated Press’ article, GOP Lawmakers Press Obama on Specific Budget Cuts. To watch that video – which also contains parts of Speaker John Boehner’s statement – click here.
06.14.2011	"Unemployment Shouldn’t Be Rising. America Can Do Better” Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement after the Labor Department announced that the national unemployment rate rose from 9.0% to 9.1% in May. “Today’s report is more evidence that President Obama’s ‘spend, borrow and bailout’ policies have clearly failed. To grow jobs in the private sector, we need to shrink the size of the public sector. That means lower taxes, less government spending, reducing the record budget deficit, and stopping burdensome regulations. House Republicans have a plan to get our economy moving again. Now we just need the President to work with us to implement it.” Since President Obama took office, 2.5 million Americans have lost their jobs. The national unemployment rate has been above 8.5% for 27 straight months – the longest streak since the Great Depression. The average person’s stay on unemployment is more than twice as high than at any point in the past 50 years. “Two and a half years into Barack Obama’s presidency, the national unemployment rate still continues to rise. That’s unacceptable. America can do better.”
06.14.2011	Scott AFB, IL– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) led a delegation of Spokane leaders to Scott Air Force Base today to meet with Gen. Raymond Johns, Commander of the Air Mobility Command, and other high-ranking military officials to discuss efforts to bolster Fairchild Air Force Base, the largest employer in Eastern Washington. “I was delighted to organize and participate in this very important meeting which will directly affect the future of Fairchild Air Force Base and the Spokane community,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “We had an excellent exchange of ideas and information that will bear positive results for the people of Eastern Washington.” One of the key topics at today’s meetings was replacing the aging KC-135’s at Fairchild. On Feb. 24, 2011, Boeing was awarded a $35 billion contract to build the next generation of tankers. One of Rep. McMorris Rodgers’ top priorities is making sure those new tankers are based at Fairchild as quickly as possible. Spokane leaders at today’s meeting included Mayor Mary Verner; County Commissioner Todd Mielke; Rich Hadley, CEO of Greater Spokane Incorporated.; Scott Morris, CEO of AVISTA; Greg Bever, Chairman and Publisher of the Spokane Journal of Business; Bill Simer, CEO of McDirmid, Mikkelsen, & Secrest; Jeff Severs, Financial Rep., Northwestern Mutual; and Greg Buckley, former 141 Air Refueling Wing/CC. Every year, Rep. McMorris Rodgers leads a delegation of Spokane leaders to the Pentagon to meet with the Secretary of the Air Force and other high-ranking military officials to discuss the importance of Fairchild and the new tankers and possible new missions. This year’s meeting took place on April 7, 2011.
06.14.2011	“President’s Blank Check Creates a Moral Hazard that Makes a Global Debt Crisis More Likely” After $161 Billion Bailout Last Year, Talks Continues on a Second Bailout Spokane, WA – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today after President Obama concluded a meeting with German Chancellor Angela Merkel by pledging to “cooperate fully… through international financial institutions like the IMF” in the $161 billion bailout of Greece – a bailout which may be repeated in the next few days, bringing the total cost of the Greek bailout to $227 billion. “The President’s statement was a missed opportunity to protect the American people who don’t want their tax money being money used to bail out European governments. The President’s support of these bailouts has already cost US taxpayers $100 billion. By strongly endorsing these bailouts again yesterday, the President continues to create a moral hazard that makes it more likely that larger European nations – particularly, Spain and Italy – will be standing in line for American tax dollars tomorrow.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers is the author of a Congressional resolution that would stop U.S. tax dollars from being used by the IMF for bailouts of European countries. In his statement yesterday, President Obama said failure to participate in these bailouts would be “disastrous.” On March 24, 2010, Rep. McMorris Rodgers was the first Member of Congress to publicly oppose U.S. involvement in a European bailout. A full compilation of her work on this issue can be found here.
06.14.2011	Seattle, WA- Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, delivered the keynote speech at the Washington Policy Center’s (WPC) Health Conference in Seattle today. Rep. McMorris Rodgers sits on the powerful House Energy and Commerce Committee, which oversees federal health care policy. The WPC is one of Washington State's leading think tanks. “We are united in our belief that expanding access to high-quality, affordable health care is not only critical for patients, it’s also critical to the long-term competitiveness of our economy,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers in her speech. “But, in my opinion, the health care reform bill that Congress passed last year was the wrong kind of reform – reform that will make things worse (not better) – for our patients, doctors and small business owners.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers voted against the controversial Patient Protection Act because it will increase premiums for working families, increase taxes on small businesses, cut Medicare for seniors, and increase government spending by $2.3 trillion over 10 years, once it takes full effect. In her speech, Rep. McMorris Rodgers advocated for her new bill, The State Flexibility Act. This bill will fundamentally transform Medicaid from a federally-directed, one-size-fits-all program into a true partnership between the states and the federal government. On Feb. 16, 2011, Rep. McMorris Rodgers and the WPC co-wrote an op-ed in the Seattle Times, Congress Must Provide States More Medicaid Flexibility. On Wednesday, Rep. McMorris Rodgers will speak at a WPC health care conference in Spokane. That event is open to the press. ###
06.02.2011	Washington, DC –Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, was honored today by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and presented with their Spirit of Enterprise Award for supporting legislation critical to the American business community in the second session of the 111th Congress. “I am proud to accept the Chamber’s Spirit of Enterprise Award,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is an outstanding leader for America’s job creators, and I’ve enjoyed working with them on shared priorities, including tax relief, removing harmful regulations, common-sense health care reform, and strengthening our education system.” “The Chamber is honored to recognize Rep. McMorris Rodgers for helping create an environment in which businesses can grow and create jobs,” said Thomas J. Donahue, president and CEO of the Chamber. “She has shown great conviction by standing on the side of business, at a time when it matters most. Today we honor her.” Eligibility for the Chamber’s Spirit of Enterprise Award is based on how Members of Congress vote on key business issues. According to their scorecard, Rep. McMorris Rodgers earned a 100% rating in 2010 and collectively holds a 90% ranking during her tenure in Congress. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is the world’s largest business federation representing the interests of more than 3 million businesses of all sizes, sectors, and regions, as well as state and local chambers and industry associations. Photo provided by U.S. Chamber of Commerce.
06.02.2011	Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, participated in the launch of the Congressional Balanced Budget Amendment Caucus today. “I am proud to join this caucus which will serve as a critical forum for our efforts to pass a balanced budget amendment to the U.S. Constitution. Even before I arrived in Congress, I called for a balanced budget amendment, and today I am more convinced than ever that we need this amendment to bring spending discipline to Congress, put our economy on a solid footing, and reduce the debt burden on our children and grandchildren,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. The Balanced Budget Amendment Caucus is a bipartisan group of Members of Congress dedicated to developing and championing a measure that would mandate a balanced federal budget. The Caucus – which is chaired by Rep. Mike Coffman (R-CO) – has over 60 Members. Rep. McMorris Rodgers is an original cosponsor of legislation to enact a balanced budget amendment. She also supports an amendment to prohibit federal spending from rising above 20 percent of the U.S. economy (it’s about 25 percent today). According to the Obama Administration, the federal budget deficit will be $1.6 trillion this year – an all-time record. The national debt stands at $14.2 trillion. “Forty-nine states require a balanced budget by law,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “There’s no reason the federal government can’t do the same.” In 1995, a balanced budget amendment passed the House but failed to meet the two-thirds requirement in the Senate by a single vote.
06.02.2011	“Disastrous Law Looks Worse Than Ever” Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today marking the one-year anniversary of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act: “During last year’s health care debate, then-Speaker Pelosi famously said, ‘We have to pass the bill so you can find out what’s in it.’ I knew enough about the bill to vote against it. We all knew the bill would increase premium for working families (10-13 percent, according to the non-partisan Congressional Budget Office), raise taxes on small businesses, and cut Medicare for seniors. We also knew the bill was too expensive (about $2.3 trillion over 10 years, once it took full effect) and would increase the deficit at a time when the national debt is already $14 trillion. This bill is a disaster, and as we mark its one-year anniversary, it looks worse than ever.” The health care bill was signed into law on Mar. 23, 2010 over the objection of the American people. After the bill’s signing, Rep. McMorris Rodgers said, “Never has a Congress worked so hard to do something so unpopular that is so destructive to America.” On Jan. 19, 2011, Rep. McMorris Rodgers voted for a bill that would repeal last year’s health care law. To watch her floor speech, click here. On Feb. 3, 2011, Rep. McMorris Rodgers introduced legislation that would prohibit the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) from hiring new employees to enforce the unconstitutional individual health care mandate that was included in last year’s law. Rep. McMorris Rodgers is helping to lead efforts to alleviate the bill’s negative impact on Medicaid costs. On Feb. 16, 2011, the Seattle Times published the Congresswoman’s op-ed, Congress Must Provide States More Medicaid Flexibility. The Congresswoman’s updated “Health Care Hub” can be found here.
06.02.2011	Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, was appointed to the House Technology Operations Team today. This newly-created working group, whose Republican Members were appointed by Speaker Boehner, will focus on expanding House communications technology, enhancing the dialogue between the American people and their elected leaders. “As we’ve recently seen with America Speaking Out, YouCut, and the Pledge to America, Congress can effectively use new technologies to tap into the great ideas and wisdom of the American people” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Now we need to take our efforts to a higher level. I look forward to working with my colleagues to bring the best available technologies to the House, strengthen the connection between Members and their constituents, and improve the quality of our government.” In her role as Vice Chair, Rep. McMorris Rodgers leads the effort to keep House Republicans ahead-of-the-curve on New Media trends. She is also Co-Chair of the Republican New Media Caucus. A list of her New Media accomplishments can be found here. The House Technology Operations Team will work closely with the Office of the Chief Administrative Officer and the Committee on House Administration. In addition to Rep. McMorris Rodgers, the other Republican Members are Rep. Jason Chaffetz (UT-03), Rep. Daniel Lungren (CA-03), Rep. Michael McCaul (TX-10), Rep. Robert Latta (OH-05), and Rep. Sean Duffy (WI-07).
06.02.2011	“Reason for Optimism, But We Must Do Better” Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement after the federal government announced that the national unemployment rate fell from 8.9% to 8.8% in March and the economy added 216,000 jobs. “While unemployment remains far too high in Spokane, Okanogan County, Ferry County, and many other parts of Eastern Washington, the latest jobs report is reason for optimism that House Republican policies are boosting confidence in the private sector and creating a more favorable climate for economic growth,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “After two years of failed ‘spend, borrow, and bailout’ policies, House Republican efforts to prevent a record tax increase, adopt the largest spending cuts in U.S. history, and eliminate costly regulations (such as the 1099 requirement in last year’s health care law) are moving us in the right direction. “However, with the federal government expected to run a record $1.6 trillion deficit this year and America still stuck in the longest streak of high unemployment since the Great Depression, we have a lot of work ahead of us, and it’s critical that the President and Senate work with us in a bipartisan fashion to avoid the threat of a double-dip recession.” This is the second straight month that national employment grew by over 200,000– the only months to experience such high levels of growth since the start of the recession in 2007. The Dow Jones Industrial Average just completed its best first quarter since 1999 and is near its highest level in three years.
06.02.2011	“This Should Not Happen; The American People Deserve Better” Washington, D.C.– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement about the growing likelihood that the federal government would experience a partial shutdown at midnight tonight. “The American people have a right to expect that their elected leaders will pass and sign a reasonable budget on time and to avoid the disruptions that a partial government shutdown would cause,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “House Republicans passed a budget on February 19. Forty-eight days later, the Senate has yet to consider that budget or any budget. “Yesterday, I joined my House Republican colleagues in passing a short-term ‘Continuing Resolution’ that would fund the government for an additional week and the Defense Department for the rest of the fiscal year. The Senate refused to consider it. And now the American people are about to bear the consequences. That is unacceptable. The American people deserve better.” The House Republican budget includes $61 billion in spending cuts through the end of the fiscal year on Sep. 30, 2011. This was an important first step in fulfilling the House Republicans’ “Pledge to America” to cut $100 billion in federal spending over a one-year-period. The American people are demanding a stop to the Administration’s “spend, borrow, and bailout” policies, and the House Republican budget answers their demand. While median household income has shrunk 4 percent over the past 4 years, federal spending has grown 36 percent. The federal government is borrowing $5 billion every day on top of a $14 trillion national debt. According to the Obama Administration, the debt will grow by an additional $10 trillion over the next 10 years. “House Republicans are eager to strike a deal – but it has to be a deal that makes sense,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Keep in mind: Sixty-one billion dollars is less than 2 percent of our $3.8 trillion federal budget. We need to find a number that will pass both Houses of Congress while also showing real fiscal restraint. “If we can’t get our fiscal house in order – and soon – we are in danger of causing a Greek-like debt crisis in America. And by then, it will be too late because there’s no one left to bail out America.” Later tonight, Rep. McMorris Rodgers will set up a portal on her website to answer constituent questions about the potential shutdown. “Right now, the American people are disappointed, and I share their disappointment.”
06.02.2011	Votes for CR that Stops Government Shutdown Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, applauded the budget agreement reached by House and Senate negotiators on Friday. She also voted for a stopgap “Continuing Resolution” to fund the federal government through Thursday until a final budget can be written into law. The “CR” stops the government shutdown which took effect at midnight. "Like the overwhelming majority of Americans, I did not want to see a government shutdown, and I’m glad that both parties have come together to keep the government open and avoid the disruptions that a long-term shutdown would cause,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. Negotiators struck a deal that would fund the federal government through the rest of Fiscal Year 2011 with $39 billion in spending cuts. It is the largest cut in federal spending ever and marks the end of the "stimulus" spending spree that pushed deficits up to record levels. “The House has shown its determination to restore the American economy, cut spending, and bring federal finances into balance,” the Congresswoman said. “In the months ahead, we will continue to push for spending cuts – reducing federal spending by trillions of dollars. “I’m pleased that the federal government will be open for business Saturday morning, and I’m optimistic that things are coming together to make sure the government stays open for the rest of the fiscal year.”
06.02.2011	“Bold Plan is Exactly What America Needs to Grow Jobs Today and Prevent a Debt Crisis Tomorrow” Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today after the U.S. House passed the historic “Path to Prosperity” budget proposal for Fiscal Year 2012. “With today being ‘Tax Day,’ I’m pleased that House Republicans have passed a pro-taxpayer budget that will cut taxes by $2 trillion and reduce government spending by $6 trillion over the next 10 years while putting us on track to balance the budget and pay off the national debt. “At a time when the federal government is borrowing $5 billion every day on top of a $14 trillion national debt, we need to get our debt under control, and we need to do it urgently. Otherwise, we will have a Greek-style debt crisis in the next few years. The best way to avoid this crisis is to cut spending. Washington doesn’t have a revenue problem; it has a spending problem. And this budget gets to the root of that problem while keeping our promises to America’s most vulnerable, including our seniors. Furthermore, it will give our economy a boost by giving small business owners the confidence they need to grow and create jobs again.” This week, President Obama released his “do-over budget” which includes over $1 trillion in tax increases over the next 10 years. “At a time when the economy is so vulnerable, I couldn’t think of a worse thing we could do than raise taxes on job creators,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. The Congresswoman spoke about the “Path to Prosperity” at today’s Republican Leadership press conference. To watch her remarks, click here. To learn more about the budget, visit budget.gop.gov.
06.02.2011	“Change from ‘Stable’ to ‘Negative’ Highlights Needs for Bold Deficit Reduction” Spokane, WA – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today after the ratings agency Standard and Poor changed their debt outlook for the United States from “stable” to “negative.” “S&P’s announcement is just the latest sign that the private sector is growing increasingly alarmed by the Administration’s ‘spend, borrow, and bailout’ policies. To grow our economy, we need to adopt a bold plan to put our fiscal house in order. Last week, House Republicans passed a historic budget for Fiscal Year 2012 that would cut government spending by $6 trillion over the next 10 years and put the federal government on track to balance the budget and pay off the national debt. We need the Senate and the White House to work with us in implementing this plan. We should also adopt a balanced budget amendment to the Constitution and a constitutional amendment to limit federal spending to 20 percent of the economy.” Since President Obama took office, the national debt has soared by $3.5 trillion. That’s 25 percent of the entire $14.2 trillion debt. The debt continues to grow at a rate of $4.9 billion per day. That's almost three times the daily average of $1.7 billion under the previous administration. To learn more about the House Republican budget, visit budget.gop.gov.
06.02.2011	Walla Walla, WA- Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) spoke at the Jonathan M. Wainwright Memorial VA Medical Center in Walla Walla today for the groundbreaking of a new outpatient clinic and residential recovery unit to serve local veterans. “The veterans who live in our community have answered America’s call to freedom, and we must honor their service and sacrifice,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “When local veterans need urgent medical care, they shouldn’t have to travel across the state or face time-consuming transfers from hospital to hospital. With today’s groundbreaking, we can ensure that America’s heroes will continue to get timely and high-quality care right here in Walla Walla.” The clinic will be a two-story, 67,000-square-foot building on the west end of the campus directly behind the old hospital building. The 36-bed residential recovery unit will be about 22,000 square feet and located in the southwest corner of the campus. It will include a 12-bed wing dedicated to women's care. The Walla Walla VA serves approximately 65,000 veterans in three states and 15 counties. Rep. McMorris Rodgers is a vocal champion for America’s veterans, service members, and their families. She is Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus. ###
06.02.2011	Spokane, WA- Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) delivered the keynote speech at the Federal Transportation Report at the Lincoln Center today. In her speech, she focused on local transportation priorities, including the North Spokane Corridor, I-90, the US 195 Corridor Interchange, US 12, and the Spokane Transit Authority. “Infrastructure development is a vital component to Eastern Washington’s economic future,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “We need more roads, bridges, and highways to accommodate the growing and changing needs of our community. On a federal level, we need to pass a long-term transportation bill that extends the span of funding from several months to several years – reducing the uncertainty currently felt by contractors, small business owners, and local governments. On a local level, we need to establish funding priorities, knowing that the budget climate in our nation’s capital has changed, and new funding mechanisms – including private-public partnerships – may be beneficial going forward.” On Apr. 7, 2011, Rep. McMorris Rodgers coordinated and attended a meeting between 30 community leaders and U.S. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood about Eastern Washington transportation priorities. On Apr. 12, 2011, Rep. McMorris Rodgers continued advocating for those priorities by submitting written testimony to the House Highways and Transit Subcommittee as part of their drafting of the Surface Transportation Reauthorization Bill. ###
06.02.2011	“Guidance Document” Improperly Expands Regulatory Authority; Would Impose New Burdens on Local Farmers & Business Owners Spokane, WA – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), member of the House Energy & Commerce Committee, released the following statement today after the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) issued a “guidance document” which substantially expands the scope of the federal government’s jurisdiction over waters and property rights and will result in confusion, permitting delays, and added costs for farmers and small business owners in Eastern Washington. “I am strongly opposed to the EPA’s decision, which is just the latest in a series of job-crushing measures by this Agency which will severely harm our local economy,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. The EPA’s “guidance document” will expand the Clean Water Act’s interpretation to allow the Agency to regulate small navigable bodies of water. Last week, Rep. McMorris Rodgers signed onto a letter to EPA Administrator Lisa Jackson opposing the Agency’s consideration of that policy. That letter – which was signed onto by 169 other House Republicans and Democrats – can be viewed here. By issuing “guidance” before conducting any rulemaking, the Obama Administration is violating the principles of the Administrative Procedure Act (APA). The APA sets the standards for the activities and rulemaking of all federal regulatory agencies, and is designed to ensure those agencies use open, uniform, and fair procedures. Rep. Bob Gibbs (R-OH), Chairman of the Water Resources and Environment Subcommittee, pledged today that he will hold hearings on the “EPA’s practice of circumventing the regulatory process.”
06.02.2011	“Justice Has Been Served to 9/11 Mastermind; Landmark Victory in War on Terror” Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today after President Obama announced that U.S. special forces had killed international terrorist Osama bin Laden: “Like all Americans, I remember where I was on September 11, 2001 when almost 3,000 innocent Americans were killed on U.S. soil. Since that day, we as a nation have been resolved to ‘bring our enemies to justice or bring justice to our enemies,’ as President Bush eloquently put it in the aftermath of that awful day, and today, the American people – and all peace-loving people around the world – can celebrate the fact that’ justice has been done.’ “I want to thank the brave special forces who carried out this dangerous, successful mission. I also want to express my deepest gratitude to all of our servicemen and women who have fought bravely – and continue to fight bravely – in Afghanistan and other fronts of the War on Terror. No corner of the world is too small or too remote to offer safety to America’s enemies. We will continue to prosecute this war against al-Qaeda until every terrorist has been brought to justice.”
06.02.2011	Spokane Native with Vast Small Business Experience Will Lead District Team Spokane – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) announced today that Louise Fendrich has been appointed as Interim District Director. She is replacing David Condon, who is on a leave of absence. Most recently, Ms. Fendrich served as the Congresswoman’s Director of Constituent Services. She previously worked at Greater Spokane Incorporated for 12 years where she covered small business issues for Spokane and Eastern Washington. “Louise is well respected in our community and I am delighted she has accepted the appointment,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Her strong commitment to Eastern Washington will help me better serve our families back home, and she will hit the ground running as the Interim Director.” “Louise has a great grasp of federal issues and a wealth of experience with small business, economic development, and military issues,” Rep. McMorris Rodgers further added. Ms. Fendrich will manage the district staff and constituent services. Rep. McMorris Rodgers maintains offices in Spokane, Colville, and Walla Walla. Ms. Fendrich will be based in the Spokane office.
06.02.2011	State Flexibility Act Would Prevent Looming Fiscal Disaster While Ensuring Medicaid’s Availability for Most Vulnerable Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, and Rep. Phil Gingrey (R-GA), Co-Chair of the GOP Doctors Caucus, introduced a landmark Medicaid reform bill today that would fundamentally change Medicaid from a federally-directed, one-size-fits-all program into a true partnership between the states and the federal government, creating a climate for innovation and cost savings, while ensuring that the program meets the needs of our most vulnerable populations. Republican and Democratic Governors support this initiative because growing Medicaid costs are straining their state budgets while threatening vital health care services for the poor, the elderly, and those with disabilities. One of the main reasons for this cost explosion is the Medicaid Maintenance of Effort (MOE) requirements included in the Patient Protection Act and the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act. The MOE prohibits states from adjusting their eligibility for Medicaid prior to the program’s explosive expansion scheduled for 2014 – also a product of last year’s radical health care law. The State Flexibility Act would eliminate the MOE requirement. “When it comes to Medicaid (and most issues) ‘the government closest to the people is the best form of government,’” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers at a press conference unveiling the bill. “Our bill follows that principle to make America’s 50 states ‘laboratories of democracy’ in which new ideas for health care spending will have a chance to take effect and the best ideas will win.” In Washington State alone, Gov. Christine Gregoire is projecting a $5 billion deficit over the next biennium – and the main driver of that deficit is Medicaid spending. The House Energy & Commerce Committee estimates that the government takeover of health care will cost states at least $118 billion through 2023. “Our bill will give Governors the flexibility they need to keep Medicaid available for those who truly need it – while avoiding the costs of allowing the program to spiral out of control – specifically, higher taxes or cuts to other vital services,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. Rep. Fred Upton, Chairman of the House Energy & Commerce, is an original cosponsor of the bill and attended today’s press conference. The Senate version is being introduced by Sen. Orrin Hatch (R-UT), Ranking Member of the Senate Finance Committee, who also attended. “Our bill hopes to provide savings through flexibility of services offered to the individual in need, better delivery, and prioritizing,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers.
06.02.2011	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) hosted a briefing for Members of Congress and their staff today about the benefits of the Agriculture Research Service (ARS) for America’s farmers and our nation as a whole. “As we debate the budget and America’s future, we need to keep these facts in mind: It’s the American farmer who has fed the world for over 100 years, kept our nation's food prices low as a percentage of income, and done the most to combat poverty around the world – and that’s in large part due to scientific breakthroughs in agriculture research,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “The research facilitated by ARS scientists at Washington State University and elsewhere provides everyone from farmers and ranchers to beauticians and pharmacists invaluable analysis and findings that help make our nation’s products and food supply safer, more efficient, and durable.” ARS operates over 100 research facilities around the world. The Congresswoman invited Mike Miller, the Washington Grain Commissioner, and Dana Herron, the Tri-State Wheat Commission Representative to speak at today’s briefing. They discussed the applicability of the ARS research conducted at WSU. Other speakers at today’s event were Dr. Caird Rexroad, Associate Administrator for Operations, U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), ARS and Dr. Kay Walker Simmons, Deputy Administrator, Crop Production and Protection, USDA, ARS. ###
06.02.2011	Washington, D.C.– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus, received Military Spouse magazine’s first-ever Legislative Impact Award at their Military Spouse of the Year Luncheon today. “I recognize that when a service member joins the military, it’s not just a job, it’s a family commitment to our country,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “To the military spouses here today, never forget that you are role models to the rest of us, that your service does not go unnoticed, and that your dedication to our country does not go unappreciated.” Rep. Sanford Bishop (D-GA), Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus, also received the Legislative Impact Award. Mrs. Bianca Strzalkowski of Ft. Bragg, North Carolina was presented with the Military Spouse of the Year Award. That award recognizes the sacrifice of the 1.1 million military spouses who provide unwavering support to our armed services. On April 12, 2011, Rep. McMorris Rodgers joined First Lady Michelle Obama and Dr. Jill Biden at the White House to launch Joining Forces -a national initiative to educate, challenge, and spark action from all sectors of society to ensure military families have the support they deserve. Joining Forces closely mirrors four important issues the Caucus is working on: Employment, education, wellness, and public awareness. The photo above is from an April 6, 2011 meeting Rep. McMorris Rodgers attended at the White House to plan Joining Forces.
06.02.2011	Bill Will Lead to Better Decision-Making on Hydropower Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), along with nine original cosponsors including Rep. Doc Hastings (R-WA), Chairman of the House Natural Resources Committee, introduced H.R. 1719, The Endangered Species Compliance and Transparency Act this week. This bill would require Power Marketing Administrations, including the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA), to separate out and report the costs associated with The Endangered Species Act (ESA) to each customer. “In Eastern Washington – and throughout America – the benefits of hydropower aren’t being fully tapped because of billions of dollars in excessive regulatory costs to mitigate unproven environmental effects,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “In the Pacific Northwest, for example, 30 percent of wholesale power rates go to compliance programs for endangered salmon. Despite the growing costs, many consumers don’t know how much they’re paying for salmon protection, or whether they’re paying at all. They have a right to know how their money is being spent. That’s why I’ve introduced The Endangered Species Compliance and Transparency Act. By empowering consumers with critical information, my bill will contribute to better decision-making about the use of hydropower and make hydropower move available to meet our economy’s growing energy needs.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers, founder of the Congressional Hydropower Caucus, is a strong champion for this valuable energy resource. Hydropower is a clean, renewable source of energy that provides low-cost electricity and helps reduce carbon emissions. In addition, multi-purpose dams provide water for irrigation, wildlife, recreation and barge transportation and offer flood control benefits. A court-mandated spill in 2004 helped make BPA the federal agency with the highest ESA compliance costs in the nation. BPA estimates that they have spent approximately $500 million annually on ESA-related compliance costs in recent years. By law, the agency passes on all of these costs to its wholesale customers. A 2005 poll found that 70 percent of customers either didn’t know how much they paid for salmon recovery or believe that recovery accounted for less than 5 percent of their monthly bills. Rep. McMorris Rodgers introduced The Endangered Species Compliance and Transparency Act in the 110th and 111th Congresses, but it did not become law.
06.02.2011	NOTE: Photos and captions are below. Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, travelled to Afghanistan over the Mother’s Day weekend. She met with servicemembers and wounded warriors, thanked them for their service, and received briefings from U.S. military commanders. "I saw a lot of young men and women who were a long way from home this Mother's Day," said McMorris Rodgers. “I wanted to let them know that we're thinking about them, praying for their safety and success, and we are very proud of them." Rep. McMorris Rodgers also gained a firsthand perspective on military operations in Afghanistan following the death of Osama bin Laden. She was part of a small delegation of Members of Congress who made the trip. Rep. McMorris Rodgers is Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus and served three terms on the House Armed Services Committee. Fairchild Air Force Base is in her District. PHOTO CAPTIONS: Afghan1: Rep. McMorris Rodgers with Maj. Gen. Stuart Beare. Afghan 2: Group photo with Rep. McMorris Rodgers, Rep. Donna Edwards (D-MD) [second from left], Rep. Vickie Hartzler (R-MO) [center], and Rep. Susan Davis (D-CA) [far right]. Afghan 3: Rep. McMorris Rodgers with Afghan pilots.
06.02.2011	House Approves Bill to Reverse Administration’sGulf Energy Moratorium Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, voted for H.R. 1231, The Reversing President Obama's Offshore Moratorium Act today. This bill would reduce energy prices and create jobs by ending the President’s year-long moratorium on energy production in the Gulf of Mexico. “At a time when energy prices are approaching an all-time record and we are still experiencing the longest streak of high unemployment since the Great Depression, Congress needs to get serious about increasing domestic energy production,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “The bill we passed today will create energy jobs and reduce energy prices for hard-working Americans.” The President’s moratorium took effect in May 2010. Since that time, U.S. domestic oil production has declined by 16% while the average price of a gallon of gas has surged by 48%. The moratorium has cost the Gulf Coast region 12,000 jobs. “This year, America will spend about $500 billion on foreign oil,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Those energy dollars should stay in America for American energy jobs. We have the resources to achieve energy independence. Now we just need the political leadership to use them.” The Congresswoman spoke about energy at yesterday’s Republican Leadership press conference. To watch her remarks, click here.
06.02.2011	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) released the following statement today after the House Health Subcommittee approved her landmark Medicaid reform bill, The State Flexibility Act: “Whether it’s Governors or taxpayers or Medicaid recipients, they all deserve flexibility and choice, rather than top-down requirements imposed by bureaucrats thousands of miles away,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Our bill will bring much needed-flexibility to Medicaid, avoid a potential fiscal disaster, and ensure the program’s availability for those who need it most.” The State Flexibility Act,introduced by Rep. McMorris Rodgers and Rep. Phil Gingrey (R-GA), repeals the Medicaid Maintenance of Effort (MOE) requirements included in the stimulus bill and The Patient Protection Act. The MOE prohibits states from adjusting their eligibility for Medicaid prior to the program’s explosive expansion scheduled for 2014 – also a product of last year’s health care law. The bipartisan National Governors Association calls MOE reform one of their top priorities for Congress this year. The State Flexibility Actis endorsed by Americans for Tax Reform and Citizens Against Government Waste. To learn more about the bill, click here.
06.02.2011	Outlines Vision for Fairchild as Part of Stronger U.S. National Security Spokane, WA- Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) addressed Greater Spokane Incorporated’s Armed Services Committee today, outlining a vision for Fairchild Air Force Base as part of a revitalized, 21st century military. In her speech, Rep. McMorris Rodgers also discussed her recent trip to Afghanistan, her work as Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus, and other topics. “Right now, we have pilots at Fairchild who are flying tankers which are more than 50 years old,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “That is not consistent with our goal of having a modern, state-of-the art Air Force. The Air Force’s recent decision to award Boeing a $35 billion contract to build the next generation of tankers allows us to move forward – and not a moment too soon. Now our goal is to make sure those planes are flying over Fairchild!” On Apr. 7, 2011, Rep. McMorris Rodgers coordinated and attended a meeting between 30 GSI leaders and high-ranking military officials, including Secretary of the Air Force Michael Donley, to discuss the importance of Fairchild AFB and the new tankers. She also recently met with Boeing President Jim McNerney about those same topics. On Apr. 12, 2011, Rep. McMorris Rodgers joined First Lady Michelle Obama and Dr. Jill Biden at the White House to launch Joining Forces -a national initiative to educate, challenge, and spark action from all sectors of society to ensure military families have the support they deserve. Joining Forces closely mirrors four important issues the Caucus is working on: Employment, education, wellness, and public awareness. “The brave wives, husbands, sons and daughters who hold down the fort back home are the bedrock of our community and the backbone of our country,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers in today’s speech. “We thank them. We honor them. We cannot forget them.” ###
06.02.2011	Despite EPA Regulations, Congresswoman Committed to Protecting Eastern Washington’s Agriculture Community Spokane, WA – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee and Rep. Jack Kingston (R-GA), Chairman of the House Agriculture Appropriations Subcommittee, hosted a successful agriculture roundtable discussion today. They met with agriculture stakeholders and research leaders from Washington State University to discuss the regulatory and budgetary issues that are most pertinent to Eastern Washington’s farmers. “Today’s discussion was both engaging and productive,” said Rep McMorris Rodgers. “Chairman Kingston and I addressed many issues affecting farmers across the country – including EPA regulations, anticipated appropriations for ARS research, crop insurance, and market access programs. In addition, the meeting provided an excellent opportunity to hear first-hand how EPA regulations negatively affect the farmers in our region and what we can do as legislators to help protect them.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers and Chairman Kingston responded to the concerns raised by Eastern Washington’s farmers regarding the deleterious effects of duplicative pesticide permit regulations, proposed new PM10 regulations, and increased EPA intervention. Rep. McMorris Rodgers also highlighted the importance of continued ARS funding. “It is imperative that we continue to support funding for agriculture research, especially those that focus on crop protection in Eastern Washington,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Today’s meeting provided a phenomenal opportunity to hear directly from our stakeholders and partners at WSU about which programs and policies are most effective. As this budget debate continues, I will remain steadfast in my commitment to stimulate our economy, create jobs, and protect Eastern Washington’s farmers.”
06.02.2011	Vice Chair Served on Escort Committee for Israeli Prime Minister Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, welcomed Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu to Capitol Hill today as part of the bipartisan Escort Committee. The Prime Minister met privately with Rep. McMorris Rodgers and other Members before speaking to a joint session of Congress. “Like most of my colleagues, I was stirred by the Prime Minister’s passionate, well-articulated defense of Israel’s right to exist and the vital importance of the US-Israeli partnership,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “After today’s speech, I am even more committed to working with my colleagues to strengthen the friendship between America and Israel.” A high-res photo of the Congresswoman with Prime Minister Netanyahu and his wife, Sara, is attached.
06.02.2011	Washington, D.C.– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Co-Chair of the Community Pharmacy Caucus, introduced The Pharmacy Competition & Consumer Choice Act today. This common-sense bill would increase competition and transparency in the delivery of pharmacy services, reducing costs for America’s pharmacists and their customers. “As the face of neighborhood health care, America’s pharmacists are on the frontlines of delivering quality, affordable health care and they deserve our full support,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “However, there are policies on the books today which unintentionally undermine our nation’s pharmacists and their customers. As we all know, markets work best when artificial barriers to competition are eliminated and customers are empowered with the information they need to make informed decisions. By advancing transparency and competition, my bill will protect America’s community pharmacists and lower costs for their customers.” The National Community Pharmacists Association (NCPA) publicly endorsed today’s legislation. The NCPA is the leading voice for America’s 254,000 licensed pharmacists. Rep. McMorris Rodgers is the lead Republican sponsor of The Medication Therapy Management Benefits Act– another top priority for America’s community pharmacists.
06.02.2011	First House Chaplain from Washington State Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today after the U.S. House approved the nomination of the Rev. Patrick J. Conroy, a Gonzaga University graduate, to serve as the new House chaplain. He is the first House chaplain from Washington State. "Bulldogs are beaming with pride today as one of their own ascends to a very important position in Congress that will greatly enrich the spiritual life of our nation,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “There is no question that Members of Congress need to pray and be led in prayer to be wise stewards of our blessed nation. With his roots in Eastern Washington, and his impressive accomplishments, I know that Rev. Conroy will do an excellent job in that capacity.” Rev. Conroy was born in Everett, earned a master’s degree in philosophy from Gonzaga in 1977, and was ordained a Catholic priest in 1983. In the 1980s, he served Indian reservations in Eastern Washington – first as a pastor in Inchelium, on the Colville Reservation, then in Ford and Wellpinit, on the Spokane Reservation. He later served 10 years as a chaplain at Georgetown University. Prior to his nomination, he taught theology at Jesuit High School in Portland. Rev. Conroy is the 60th chaplain of the U.S. House. He succeeds the Rev. Daniel P. Coughlin, who retired last month after more than 11 years of service. The chaplain is an elected officer of the House of Representatives. In addition to opening proceedings with prayer, a tradition dating back to the First Continental Congress, the chaplain provides pastoral counseling to the House community, coordinates the scheduling of guest chaplains, and arranges memorial services for the House and its staff. In the past, chaplains have performed marriage and funeral ceremonies for House members.
06.02.2011	Strauss-Kahn Scandal Brings Renewed Attention to Another IMF Scandal: $100 Billion of US Tax Dollars Quietly Committed to European Bailouts Will be on Fox News at 4:20 PM EST Today to Discuss Her Resolution Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, introduced a Congressional resolution today to stop U.S. tax dollars from being used by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) for bailouts of European countries. Last year, Rep. McMorris Rodgers was the first Member of Congress to oppose these bailouts which have spread from Greece to Ireland to Portugal and may end up costing U.S. taxpayers $100 billion or more. The recent scandal involving former IMF Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn has drawn renewed scrutiny to the powerful organization. “At a time when the federal government is borrowing $5 billion every day on top of a $14 trillion national debt, I am gravely concerned by America’s growing involvement in the ‘gathering storm’ of European bailouts,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “The European debt crisis was caused by too much spending and borrowing and that crisis will not be solved by more spending and borrowing. A ‘Euro-TARP’ is the wrong approach because it's creating a ‘moral hazard’ that will lead to larger counties – particularly Spain and Italy – standing in line for U.S. tax dollars tomorrow. America should have no part in it.” The IMF has already committed $353 billion to bailouts of European governments, although most of that money hasn’t been dispensed yet. The U.S. is the leading funder of the IMF. On March 24, 2010, Rep. McMorris Rodgers was the first Member of Congress to publicly oppose U.S. involvement in a European bailout. Greece became the first country to receive an IMF bailout seven weeks later. In May 2010, she introduced a House resolution to stop US participation in the EU bailouts. With the House under then-Speaker Pelosi’s control, that resolution never made it to the floor. The Congresswoman’s work on this issue was recently featured in two articles inHuman Events (click here and here). A full compilation of her work can be found here.
06.02.2011	“Raising Debt Ceiling by $2.4 Trillion Without Significant Spending Reductions and Reform is Irresponsible” Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today after voting against H.R. 1954, a bill that would raise the national debt ceiling by $2.4 trillion but without any spending cuts. “Congress should not raise the debt ceiling again unless it’s accompanied by significant cuts in government spending and fundamental budget reform. The debate over the debt ceiling is just getting started, and in the weeks ahead, we will have a unique opportunity to change the current course and incentives in our nation’s capital to smarter spending and a smaller role for the federal government. For the sake our children and grandchildren, we have to get our national debt under control, and we need to do it urgently.” The national debt currently stands at $14.4 trillion. Under current projections, the national debt will reach $26 trillion in 10 years. On Apr. 15, 2011, Rep. McMorris Rodgers voted for a budget that would cut government spending by $6 trillion over the next decade and put us on track to pay off the national debt.
03.15.2011	Bill to Prevent EPA from Regulating Greenhouse Gasses Move to House Floor Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), member of the House Energy & Commerce Committee, voted for the Energy Tax Prevention Act at a Committee markup today. This bill clarifies that the Clean Air Act of 1990 authorizes the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to monitor and regulate pollutants; not to address climate change through the regulation of greenhouse gasses. The bill passed the Committee and now moves to the House floor. “We need to strike the proper balance between job creation and environmental protection,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Unfortunately, the EPA’s repeated attempts to impose a ‘Cap and Trade-like system’ through the backdoor will upset that balance to the tune of higher energy prices and the loss of thousands, if not millions, of jobs. We cannot allow what happened to America’s health care industry to happen to our energy industry. The bill we passed today merely clarifies existing law to protect our economy, preserve jobs, and reduce the risk of higher energy prices.” On Feb. 9, 2011, Rep. McMorris Rodgers endorsed the Energy Tax Prevention Act at a Republican Leadership press conference. “At a time when there are 28 million Americans who would like a full-time job but don't have one, we can’t afford another job-crushing Big Government scheme,” she said. To watch her remarks, click here.
03.14.2011	Washington, D.C.– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today about the passing of longtime Spokane Valley legislator Bob McCaslin: "I was saddened to learn of the passing of my friend, Bob McCaslin, who was an outstanding leader for the Spokane Valley for thirty years. When I served in the State Legislature, Bob was one of our most well-liked, well-respected members, and he will be dearly missed. My thoughts and prayers go out to his family at this time.” Bob McCaslin represented Spokane Valley in the State Senate from 1981 to Jan. 2011. He was in the middle of his first term as a Spokane Valley city councilman. He was 84.
03.07.2011	"Exactly the Kind of Affordable and Common-Sense Solution We Need Right Now" Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, and Rep. Mike Ross (D-AR) introduced The Medication Therapy Management Benefits Act of 2011 today. This bipartisan bill amends the Social Security Act to promote medication therapy management (MTM) under the Medicare Part D prescription drug program. “We all acknowledge the tremendous advancements that have been made in medicine, but more than half of all patients do not take their medications correctly – and seniors are particularly vulnerable,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “These health risks – and the exorbitant costs associated with them – can be substantially reduced if MTM is expanded under the Medicare Part D prescription drug program. That is exactly what this legislation will do.” The Medication Therapy Management Benefits Act expands the pool of Medicare Part D beneficiaries who qualify for MTM services by providing a licensed pharmacist to a patient with any chronic illness. Currently, only those who have been diagnosed with multiple chronic conditions qualify. That comprises only 13 percent of Part D beneficiaries. Studies demonstrate that MTM services improve health care outcomes and significantly reduce spending. The cost of patients’ failure to adhere to medications has been estimated at over $290 billion per year – in addition to the $100 billion already spent on avoidable hospital visits. “Our bill reduces costs and promotes overall health for seniors in Eastern Washington and across America,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “It’s exactly the kind of affordable and common-sense solution we need right now, and I will do everything I can to secure its passage.”
03.03.2011	Ending Provision in Health Care Law is Victory for Small Businesses & Jobs Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, continued her push to create jobs by voting in favor of legislation today that would repeal the onerous 1099 reporting requirement for small businesses that was included in last year’s radical health care law. “When I talk with small business owners in Eastern Washington, their top concern is the 1099 requirement,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “The 1099 is an administrative nightmare that will increase costs for small businesses – forcing them to spend millions on paperwork that would be better used hiring more employees. At a time when 28 million Americans want a full-time job but don’t have one, we need to end this unnecessary roadblock to job creation. By repealing the 1099 today, we are taking another bold step in our agenda to create jobs and increase confidence in the private sector.” Last year’s health care law expands reporting rules by requiring businesses to issue a Form 1099 for any payment to another business that exceeds $600 per year. The National Small Business Association estimates that the average company will have to submit at least 95 forms under the requirement – a major departure from the handful that are currently filed today. According to the National Federation of Independent Businesses, this will have a “direct negative impact on small businesses.” H.R. 4 repeals this massive paperwork burden. The bill passed 314-112. “Could you imagine picking up donuts for your Friday staff meeting and then having to send the donut shop a 1099? Or sending the Post Office a 1099 if you go over $600 a year in postage? We should be encouraging small businesses to create more W-4s, not more 1099s.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers spoke on the House floor today in support of H.R. 4. To watch her floor speech, click here. A copy of her prepared remarks are below. H.R. 4 In the House of Representatives, U.S. Mar. 3, 2011 Statement of Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers Mr. Speaker, I rise in strong support for H.R. 4, the Small Business Paperwork Mandate Elimination Act of 2011. There is not a single issue that I hear more about from Eastern Washington businesses than the “1099” requirement that made its way into last year’s health care bill. Not only is this provision an administrative nightmare for employers, it has the potential to devastate small businesses. In fact, the National Small Business Association estimates that the average company will have to submit at least 95 forms under the requirement – a radical departure from the handful that are currently filed today. Even tax consultants have said that this requirement is more onerous than any tax that the IRS could collect from businesses. At a time that when our economy is still struggling, jobs are scarce, and unemployment is still hovering near 10 percent, the last thing we should do is slam the door on employers, particularly the small businesses that make up the backbone of our economy. The 1099 is just one in a number of policies that have created a climate of fear and uncertainty for the private sector. Businesses don’t know what regulatory hurdles they will have to jump through or the increased costs they will have to incur in the short or long term. We need to give them the certainty they need to start expanding and create jobs again. A critical step in that effort is to repeal the onerous 1099 form. I urge my colleague to support H.R. 4 and yield back the balance of my time.
03.03.2011	“Health Care Law will Increase State Medicaid Costs by $118 Billion; Congress Must Take Action to Alleviate States’ Fiscal Crisis” Washington, D.C.– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), member of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, released the following statement after today’s Committee hearing, The Consequences of ObamaCare: Impact on Medicaid and State Health Care Reform: “As we saw at today’s hearing, Governors of both parties are urging Congress to deal with the growing Medicaid costs imposed on the states by last years’ radical health care law,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “In fact, we estimate that the government takeover of health care will cost states at least $118 billion through 2023. Congress needs to provide states with flexibility – flexibility of eligibility, flexibility to determine services, and flexibility with provider reimbursements. Otherwise, Governors will be forced to raise taxes, cut vital services, or both.” According to a front-page article in Monday’s Wall Street Journal, 29 Governors have asked the federal government to waive the requirement that states can’t limit Medicaid eligibility or else they’ll lose federal funding. “The push sets up a showdown between states struggling with fiscal 2012 budgets and the Obama Administration… Congress could be forced to settle the matter.’” On Feb. 23, 2011, Rep. McMorris Rodgers met with Gov. Christine Gregoire (D-WA), Chair of the National Governors Association (NGA), on the topic of Medicaid reform. In her speech at this weekend’s NGA Conference, Gov. Gregoire urged states and Congress to “cooperate” on Medicaid reform. On Feb. 16, 2011, the Seattle Times published an op-ed by Rep. McMorris Rodgers and Jason Mercier, Director of the Center for Government Reform at the Washington Policy Center, on the urgent need for Medicaid transformation. To read the full op-ed, click here.
02.25.2011	NOTE: Several photos from today’s event are attached. Captions are below. Spokane, WA – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) spoke at the dedication of the Ray Daves Air Traffic Control Tower at Spokane International Airport Tower today. The tower was officially renamed after Mr. Daves – a veteran of World War II and a retired air traffic controller who has made Spokane his home for the past 65 years. The renaming was made possible by a bill Rep. McMorris Rodgers introduced in the 111th Congress that was signed into law on Dec. 22, 2010. “By naming the Control Tower after Ray, we will remind all those who come here of this great patriot who represents the best of our nation,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “But this is not only a tribute to Ray. Ray is always the first to ask others to honor all those who served – whether overseas or on the home front. So today’s ceremony is also a recognition of all their sacrifices, and the sacrifices of those who continue to serve in the defense of the United States of America.” Ray Daves is a Pearl Harbor survivor, a Yorktown survivor, and a Purple Heart recipient. He currently volunteers his time to educate others about the Honor Flight program so all veterans may get a chance to visit the World War II Memorial built in their honor. He is 90 years old. “I am deeply grateful to all those who made today possible,” said Mr. Daves. “This is a great honor which I accept with a humble heart. And I am more proud than ever to be a part of this wonderful community and nation.” “For generations to come – from this control tower – airplanes will be guided in the skies above Spokane. And when they fly above us – when they see this Tower below – let them think of the men and women inside, who truly follow in this giant’s footsteps,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. At the dedication, Rep. McMorris Rodgers presented Mr. Daves with an official copy of the bill naming the Control Tower after him. PHOTO CAPTIONS: Ray Daves: Original Fairchild Times newspaper photo/clip showing Ray Daves at the original radar scopes. RD1: Rep. McMorris Rodgers speaks at today’s dedication. Mr. Daves is seated. RD 4: Rep. McMorris Rodgers, Mr. Daves, and Mr. Daves’ daughter, Rayma Daves. RD 5: Rep. McMorris Rodgers and Mr. Daves at the scopes today (at top).
02.25.2011	"Great News for Fairchild Air Force Base; Replacing Aging Tanker Fleet is Critical to National Security" Spokane, WA – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today after the Air Force selected Boeing to build its new fleet of aerial refueling tankers – a major victory for Fairchild Air Force Base, the Washington State economy, and U.S. national security: "Like everyone in our community, I am thrilled that Boeing was chosen to bring America’s tankers into the twenty-first century. Boeing was the smart choice for taxpayers for building the tankers quickly and efficiently, right here in the U.S. Everyone knows that the employees at the Boeing facilities in Everett, Washington and Wichita, Kansas put pride, integrity and professionalism into every plane they build. It will be great seeing those planes fly over Fairchild Air Force Base." Rep. McMorris Rodgers represents Fairchild AFB, the largest employer in the Spokane area. Since coming to Congress in 2005, she has worked to expand and strengthen the role of Fairchild – including making sure that the next generation of air refueling tankers is based there. "Right now, the men and women at Fairchild are flying air refueling tankers that are more than 50 years old," said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. "That is not consistent with our goal of having a modern Air Force using state-of-the-art technology. Today’s decision allows us to move forward – and not a moment too soon." As the Spokesman-Review recently reported, "The tankers are the one aircraft the military cannot go to war without. They allow jet fighters, supply planes and other aircraft to cover long distances, crucial with fewer overseas bases and operations far from the United States in places like Iraq and Afghanistan…Today, the Air Force is struggling to keep them in flying shape." The tanker competition began in 2001 and has been repeatedly delayed. "Any further steps to delay the process should be resisted," said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. On April 29, 2010, Rep. McMorris Rodgers led a delegation of Spokane leaders to the Pentagon to meet with Secretary of the Air Force Michael Donley and other high-ranking military officials to discuss the tanker and efforts to bolster Fairchild AFB. Boeing estimates that the tanker contract will generate 50,000 direct and indirect jobs in the United States.
02.24.2011	Renew Bipartisan Commitment to Change System Causing Fiscal Crunch in Washington State Olympia, WA– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) and Gov. Christine Gregoire held a meeting on Medicaid reform today, reaffirming their commitment to work together in a bipartisan way to address this urgent issue which is threatening to reduce health care access and increase costs in Washington State and across America. “I am concerned by the federal government’s new requirement on the states to expand the Medicaid program. This will not only threaten the quality of care for our most vulnerable citizens, it will also open a hole in Washington State’s budget, putting us at risk for higher taxes and spending cuts in other vital programs, “ said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. The controversial Patient and Protection and Affordable Care Act – which was signed into law last year – imposes a Medicaid Maintenance of Eligibility restriction on the states that prohibits local elected officials from making reductions. This restriction – combined with looming state budget deficits – means Governors and legislators are faced with the painful decision of funding state-only health-care programs or providing matching funds for federal Medicaid dollars. They can't do both. On Feb. 16, 2011, the Seattle Times published an op-ed by Rep. McMorris Rodgers and Jason Mercier, Director of the Center for Government Reform at the Washington Policy Center, on the urgent need for Medicaid transformation. In their op-ed, they wrote, “Unless states are provided more flexibility over Medicaid spending they will be forced to either opt out of the program or eliminate state-only health-care priorities. A better strategy would be for Congress to transform the current categorically restricted Medicaid program, which is dictated by D.C. priorities, into an indexed block-grant program that would allow each state to design a comprehensive state-based health-care system that meets the unique needs and priorities of its citizens while protecting the most vulnerable.” To read the full op-ed, click here. On Mar. 1, 2011, the House Energy and Commerce Committee – on which Rep. McMorris Rodgers sits – will hold a hearing entitled, “The Consequences of ObamaCare: Impact on Medicaid and State Health Care Reform.” Last month, State Sens. Linda Evans Parlette, Joe Zarelli, Randi Becker and Minority Leader Mike Hewitt introduced Senate Bill 5596 to require the Department of Social and Health Services to request an indexed Medicaid block-grant waiver to "allow the state to operate as a laboratory of innovation for bending the cost curve, preserving the safety net, and improving the management of care for low-income populations."
02.22.2011	“Essential and Critical Step in Getting America’s Fiscal House in Order” Washington, D.C.– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today after voting for a Continuing Resolution that will keep the federal government open and funded through September 30, while cutting spending $100 billion in the process. "During the past four years, median household income has shrunk 4 percent while federal spending has grown 36 percent. Families and small businesses in Eastern Washington have been tightening their belts during these tough times, and the federal government needs to do the same. “The federal government has been borrowing 40 cents of every dollar it spends—this reckless spending is unsustainable and most stop. “This Continuing Resolution essentially rolls back federal spending to the pre-bailout, pre-stimulus levels over the next seven months. While it’s not a perfect plan – no plan is – I believe it’s absolutely essential to getting our fiscal house in order, creating a favorable climate for job creation, and preserving the American Dream for our children and grandchildren. “This Continuing Resolution is just the start as we work to get our fiscal house in order. There will be many opportunities to cut federal spending in the next few months. I am hopeful that President Obama and the Senate will work constructively with the House to put America on a path to fiscal sanity and avoid a government shutdown. Otherwise, we are in danger of causing a massive debt crisis in our great country.”
02.18.2011	Washington, D.C. –Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today about a potential United National Security Council resolution condemning Israel for settlement construction: “Like many of my colleagues on both sides of the aisle, I strongly encourage the Administration to veto a proposed resolution at the U.N. Security Council that would condemn Israel for settlement construction. “The Israeli government has a proven commitment to peace. Prime Minister Netanyahu has called for direct negotiations with the Palestinians anytime, anywhere and without preconditions. His recent 10-month moratorium on housing construction in the West Bank was not reciprocated by confidence-building steps from the other side. “Over the years, Israel and America have developed a strong alliance and an even stronger friendship. We should not be deliberately weakening that friendship to court favor with nations who have been indifferent, and in many cases, hostile, to America’s interests. “Now is the time to reaffirm our commitment to Israel’s right to exist and to live in peace. Vetoing this U.N. resolution would be a firm demonstration of that commitment. A vote in favor, on the other hand, would raise even more doubts about this Administration’s stewardship of America’s foreign policy at a time when we need to be strong at home and united with our friends abroad.”
02.17.2011	(Washington, D.C.) – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA), Co-Chairs of the Congressional Military Family Caucus, hosted the Caucus’ first event of the 112th Congress today. The successful event brought together Members of Congress, leading Administration officials, and service members and their families in a common purpose to draw attention to the needs of military families and advocate legislative solutions on their behalf. “As the President said at a recent White House event, ‘While less than 1% of Americans may be fighting our wars, 100% of Americans should be supporting our troops and their families,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. Rep. McMorris Rodgers announced that she, Rep. Bishop, Rep. Loretta Sanchez (D-CA), and Rep. Virginia Foxx (R-NC) are planning to introduce a bill that would create flexible spending accounts for military families. Speakers at the event included Robert Gordon, Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense, Military Community and Family Policy, and Dr. Karen Guice, Executive Director, Federal Recovery Coordination Program. In the 112th Congress, the Military Family Caucus will address critical issues that uniquely challenge military families with a particular focus on mental health, Wounded Warrior support, homeless veterans, health care and education. “There are programs that are working and we must replicate them to extend their impact,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “We must also be willing to have frank discussions about programs that are not working, or identify needs where no coherent programs exist and then address those needs.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers’ husband, Brian, is a retired Naval pilot.
02.16.2011	Amendment Would Strike Crippling Blow to Unconstitutional Law; Vital Part of GOP Strategy to Fulfill “Pledge to America” Washington, D.C.– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, introduced an amendment to the Continuing Resolution today that would prohibit the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) from using any of its funds to implement the health care reform law which passed last year. Rep. McMorris Rodgers’ amendment is one of two amendments that House Republicans are uniting behind to fulfill the “Pledge to America” to “repeal and replace” the government takeover of heath care. The other amendment by Rep. Denny Rehberg (R-MT) would prohibit the Departments of Labor and HHS from using their funds to implement the health care law. “As Judge Vinson recently ruled, the health care reform law is clearly unconstitutional, and the IRS – just like every government agency – has a duty to uphold the Constitution,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Our amendment will restore constitutional rights, save $10 billion, and follow the will of the American people who clearly do not want this law.” The Congressional Budget Office predicts the IRS will need roughly $10 billion over the next 10 years and nearly 17,000 new employees to meet its responsibilities under the health care law. “By passing this amendment, we will move away from an IRS-driven health care system and back towards a patient-centered system,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. The U.S. House is scheduled to vote on final passage of the Continuing Resolution on Thursday. The “CR” would fund the federal government from Mar. 4 through Sep. 30, 2011. On Feb. 3, 2011, Rep. McMorris Rodgers introduced H.R. 434 which would prevent the IRS from using any funds – now or in the future – to hire new employees to enforce the individual mandate. Twenty-seven states are challenging the constitutionality of the mandate in court.
02.15.2011	Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, continued her push for pro-job, pro-growth regulatory reform by voting for H. Res. 72, a resolution directing House committees to review existing, pending, and proposed regulations and orders from the federal government, focusing on their effect on jobs and economic growth. “Last week, I met with a company who said the only way they can comply with the flood of upcoming regulations is not to operate,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “This year, America slipped in the Index of Economic Freedom – an annual report released by the Heritage Foundation and the Wall Street Journal – dropping from an ‘economically free’ society a to ‘mostly free’ society – mainly because of these oppressive regulations. “The new Majority is committing to getting these oppressive regulations under control. Passage of today’s resolution is a good first step.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers is a cosponsor of the “Regulations from the Executive in Need of Scrutiny Act (REINS) Act of 2011.” This bill would reverse Congress’ delegation of its constitutional authority for making laws to the executive branch through regulations. Specifically, the bill would require that any rule whose effect on the economy would exceed $100 million annually would require Congressional approval in order to become law. The urgency of this urgency can be demonstrated in the following statistics: • A recent study by the Heritage Foundation found that an unprecedented 43 major regulations were imposed in fiscal year 2010 with a total economic cost of $26.5 billion. • Since passage in March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act has added 6,123 pages of regulations and Federal Register notices in just its first nine months. • According to a September 2010 report from the Small Business Administration, total regulatory costs amount to $1.75 trillion annually, nearly twice as much as all individual income taxes collected last year. Rep. McMorris Rodgers spoke on the House floor yesterday advocating passage of H. Res. 72. To watch her speech, click here. A copy of her prepared remarks are below. H. Res. 72 In the House of Representatives, U.S. Feb. 10, 2011 Statement of Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers Mr. Chairman, I rise in strong support of H.Res. 72. Last week, I met with a company who said the only way they can comply with the flood of regulations is to not operate. Just last month, America slipped in its economic freedom rating. We are no longer an “economically free” society but “mostly free” because of these oppressive regulations. Not labor costs, but regulations! We don’t have to look any further than the hard rock mining industry, many of which operate in Eastern Washington, to see this statement play out. Despite effective safeguards implemented by states, the federal government, through the EPA, has decided that it needs to step in and add regulations that will all but certain drain this industry of its capital — forcing businesses to cut jobs, not invest in America – ultimately making us dependent upon other countries for these important minerals. Mr. Chairman, regulation is not what this nation is about. America is about entrepreneurialism, innovation, and preserving the American Dream. I urge this Congress to take steps to get these oppressive regulations under control. A good first step is passage of the resolution we are considering today. I yield back the balance of my time.
02.09.2011	Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) expressed support for the Energy Tax Prevention Act of 2011 at a hearing of the Subcommittee on Energy and Power today. The legislation would prevent the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) from imposing “cap-and trade” by regulation, leaving this important decision in the hands of the people’s elected representatives, instead of delegating them to unelected bureaucrats. “Last November, the American people rejected the failed Big Government policies which have caused the longest streak of high unemployment since the Great Depression,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers, who sits on the Subcommittee. “Instead of listening to the people, the Administration is quietly working to impose ‘cap and trade’ through the backdoor. That is unacceptable. At a time when there are 28 million Americans who would like full-time jobs but don't have one, we can’t afford another job-crushing Big Government scheme.” The Energy Tax Prevention Act clarifies that the Clean Air Act of 1990 authorizes the EPA to monitor and regulate pollutants; not to address climate change through the regulation of greenhouse gasses. The Energy Tax Prevention Act does not weaken the EPA’s regulation of air pollution. Rep. McMorris Rodgers spoke about the bill at today’s Republican Leadership press conference. To watch her remarks, click here. ###
02.09.2011	Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) applauded the Defense Department’s announcement today that it will maintain its Joint Personnel Recovery Center (JPRC) at White Bluff, instead of closing it down or moving it, as was being considered. “This is great news for the dedicated men and women at White Bluff and their families and indeed, the entire Spokane community,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “I want to thank Admiral Carter for personally informing me of the decision which will save literally hundreds of jobs.” On September 29, 2010, Rep. McMorris Rodgers raised this issue with Deputy Secretary of Defense William J. Lynn III at a hearing of the House Armed Services Committee. She argued that Spokane has been an outstanding home for the Joint Personnel Recovery Agency since 1999, and explained how the critical Joint Personnel Recovery mission would be adversely affected by a reshuffling or reassignment to a different outpost. Deputy Secretary Lynn pledged to look into the matter. Rear Admiral Walter E. Carter is the Commander of the Joint Enabling Capabilities Command, Joint Forces Command (JFCOM). ###
02.07.2011	Bill Would Save $10 Billion; Uphold Constitutional Rights Washington, D.C.– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, announced today that she has introduced legislation that would prohibit the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) from hiring new employees to enforce the unconstitutional individual health care mandate that was included in last year’s health care law. “As two federal judges have already ruled, the individual mandate is clearly unconstitutional, and the IRS – just like every government agency – has a duty to uphold the Constitution,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Our bill will protect the constitutional right of every American to decide what health care is best for themselves and their families, while also saving taxpayers about $10 billion by preventing yet another unnecessary increase in the number of government employees.” As part of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, taxpayers are required to purchase health care insurance by 2014 or face penalties of roughly $325 per individual that the IRS would collect. The non-partisan Congressional Budget Office predicts the IRS will need roughly $10 billion over the next 10 years and nearly 17,000 new employees to meet its responsibilities under the law. Rep. McMorris Rodgers’s bill, H.R. 434 would prevent the IRS from using any funds – now or in the future – to hire new employees to enforce the mandate. This week, Judge Roger Vinson became the second federal judge to declare the individual mandate unconstitutional. Twenty-seven states are challenging the constitutionality of the individual mandate in court. ###
02.07.2011	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement in remembrance of President Ronald Regan’s 100th birthday. "While we wouldn't know it for over 70 years, on February 6, 1911 – 100 years ago today – our nation was blessed with a leader who would do more to keep freedom and opportunity alive in America, and expand both in an often dangerous world, than any other leader of my lifetime – our 40th President, Ronald Wilson Reagan. As someone who's lived the American Dream, I am grateful to President Reagan for all he did to revitalize our economy, preserve American values, and bring the Cold War to a peaceful end. May we never forget his inspiring, courageous, and compassionate leadership." ###
01.31.2011	Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement after a federal judge in Florida struck down the individual health care mandate as unconstitutional. Rep. McMorris Rodgers signed the American Center for Law and Justice (ACLJ)'s amicus brief in support of Florida's challenge. "I applaud Judge Vinson's decision to find the individual mandate unconstitutional, and I’m encouraged by this pivotal step in our efforts to repeal and replace the government takeover of health care. I voted against that dangerous law for many reasons, and – as I said on the day Congress passed it – one of the most important reasons is that it will 'erode the freedom of the American individual.' We must continue to stand up for American citizens who have the constitutional right to decide what health care is best for themselves and their families." In December 2010, a Virginia federal judge struck down the individual mandate as "unconstitutional." 27 states are challenging the law in court.
01.26.2011	“Growing Our Economy Requires Fiscal Restraint; Balancing the Budget Isn’t a Liberal or Conservative Issue” Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement tonight in response to President Obama’s State of the Union speech: “While I am encouraged by many portions of the President’s speech – and I remain hopeful that tonight will prove to be a turning point in getting Congress and the White House on the same page in dealing with our nation’s challenges – I would have preferred to see the President display a greater commitment to using free-market solutions to revive our economy and put our fiscal house in order. “As we saw on November 2, the American people are not satisfied with the status quo, and continuing the ‘spend, borrow, and bailout’ policies of the past two years is irresponsible and unsustainable. After 20 straight months of at least 9% unemployment – the longest streak since the Great Depression – we need to create a climate where small businesses have the confidence to grow and create jobs again – a climate that requires repealing and replacing the government takeover of health care and putting our fiscal house in order. “In the ‘Pledge to America,’ House Republicans showed they were listening to the American people by promising to roll back federal spending to Fiscal Year 2008 levels or less. We are on course to keep that pledge. We should also pass a pair of Constitutional amendments – one that would limit federal spending as a percentage of the U.S. economy (GDP) and another that would require a balanced budget every year. “Balancing the budget isn’t a liberal or conservative issue. When families in Eastern Washington balance their budgets, they don’t consider it a liberal or conservative policy; it’s just a requirement of life. And if the President will join us in that attitude as part of a ‘new spirit of cooperation,’ I know we can make great progress on reducing the deficit and improving the economy in 2011.” To listen to an audio recording of this release, click here. ###
01.24.2011	Washington, D.C.– Nearly 200 House Republican staffers attended a “Social Media for Congress” event today organized by the House Republican Conference Vice Chair Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) and the party’s New Media Caucus. Representatives from Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube presented the audience with a number of strategies and tactics that Republican Members can use to leverage each of their networks. A robust question and answer period followed, with the event spanning over an hour and a half. “I’ve been buttonholing both freshmen and senior Members, from the first day of session to the Member’s retreat, asking one simple question: ‘Have you set up your social media accounts yet?’ Republicans made great progress in the 111th Congress, after overcoming the naysayers who said we’d never catch up technologically—let alone take the lead,” Rep. McMorris Rodgers said. The Conference Vice Chair continued, “Now our challenge is to keep the pedal to the floor, and continue to keep our edge in this important medium. It doesn’t take much convincing for Members to see the benefit of engaging constituents online. They have a strong network in the District; this connects them back to constituents whether they’re here in D.C. or around the District. At the end of the day, it’s about being responsive, communicating our positive vision, and bringing people into the day-to-day work of the People’s House.” ###
01.24.2011	(Washington, D.C.)– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and Rep. Sanford Bishop (D-GA), Co-Chairs of the Congressional Military Family Caucus, joined other Members of Congress, government officials, and military personnel at the White House today for an important briefing about the Administration’s renewed emphasis on supporting military families. “I applaud President Obama, First Lady Michelle Obama, and Dr. Jill Biden for their leadership on this important issue. As our Commander in Chief, President Obama has reaffirmed his commitment to our military families, and he has reassured us that the families of our brave troops will remain a top priority for all government agencies. We were reminded that while only one percent of Americans may be fighting wars, 100 percent of Americans should be supporting our military families,” said Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers. The event, which was led by President Obama, highlighted the significant role military families play in the effectiveness, readiness and morale of America’s service members. The President outlined the Administration’s objectives to improve the education and development of military children; support the quality of life for family members of America’s troops; enhance military spouses’ careers; and provide additional options for child care. “I recognize that when a service member joins the military, it is not just a job; it is a family commitment to our country,” said Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers. “I have a tremendous amount of pride in our military personnel and their families, and it was an honor to join with so many Administration and military leaders today to discuss these critical issues. I look forward to working with the Administration – particularly as we continue our efforts with the Congressional Military Family Caucus in the 112th Congress – to give military families a stronger voice at the federal level.” Also in attendance were Admiral Michael Mullen; General Norton A. Schwartz; Secretary of Defense, Robert Gates; Secretary of Education, Arne Duncan; Secretary of Veterans Affairs, Eric Shinseki; Secretary of Health and Human Services, Kathleen Sebelius; Secretary of the Treasury, Timothy Geithner; and Secretary of Labor, Hilda Solis. ###
01.21.2011	Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement after learning of the death of Sargent Shriver, the first Director of the Peace Corps, a distinguished public servant, and founder of the Special Olympics: “As the mom of a child with special needs, I was saddened to learn of the passing of Sargent Shriver, a remarkable leader who dedicated his life to addressing inequality and opening doors of opportunity to those who are all too often forgotten. Like all members of the special needs community, I am grateful to Mr. Sargent; his late wife, Eunice; their son Tim, and their entire family for their outstanding work with the Special Olympics and other initiatives to help the mentally and physically disabled. Our thoughts and prayers are with the entire Shriver family.”
01.20.2011	Washington, D.C.– Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement after the Environmental Protection Agency’s recent decision to exclude biomass from its list of regulated energy sources for the nextthree years. “As a strong supporter of biomass, I applaud the EPA for its decision to encourage responsible development of this innovative energy source and thus, reduce our nation’s dependence on fossil fuels. In Eastern Washington, we’ve seen how biomass has great potential to complement existing forestry infrastructure, grow jobs in our local economy, and provide renewable energy for our region. Going forward, I will continue advocating for a permanent ruling to keep the biomass industry growing and thriving.” In September 2010, Rep. McMorris Rodgers signed a letter to Nancy Sutley, Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) encouraging the CEQ to work with other federal agencies – especially the EPA – in developing a “sensible, consistent, scientifically-based policy that recognizes the carbon-neutrality of biogenic sources.”
01.19.2011	Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, voted in favor of legislation today that would repeal the government takeover of health care. “When the health care bill passed last year, it was a defining moment in a Congress that wasn’t listening to the will of the American people,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Never had a Congress worked so hard to do something so unpopular that was so damaging to our country. In the ‘Pledge to America,’ House Republicans promised to repeal the Obama health care law. And through today’s vote, we are keeping that promise.” In her House floor speech, Rep. McMorris Rodgers listed 10 reasons why the government takeover of health care is bad for America. 1) Destroys jobs at a time when we need jobs 2) Actually increases our health care costs 3) Increases government spending 4) Increases taxes on hard-working families and small businesses 5) Takes away our choice of physicians 6) Cuts Medicare for seniors. Good bye Medicare Advantage. 7) Threatens our world-class quality health care system 8) Adds to our already-growing budget deficit 9) Includes taxpayer funding for abortions 10) Unconstitutional And there are many, many more. “Let’s start the process of repealing the current health care reform bill and replacing it with a bill that America wants and deserves,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. To watch the Congresswoman’s floor speech, click here. Earlier today, Rep. McMorris Rodgers discussed health care at the Republican Leadership press conference. She addressed the myth that repealing ObamaCare will increase the budget deficit. “Nothing could be further from the truth,” she said. To watch her full remarks, click here. ###
01.19.2011	Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, and Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08) hosted a successful meeting between Steve Ballmer, CEO of Microsoft, key Members of the Republican Leadership team, and several other Republican Members today. Mr. Ballmer and the Members had a productive discussion about intellectual property, reigniting the trade agenda, and other ideas for promoting economic growth and job creation. Microsoft is headquartered in Washington State. In the picture above, from left to right, is Rep. Reichert, Mr. Steve Ballmer, Vice Chair McMorris Rodgers, Rep. Doc Hastings (WA-04), and Rep. Greg Walden (OR-2), Chairman of the Leadership. ###
01.19.2011	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement after the FBI confirmed that a backpack discovered along a Spokane parade route on Monday contained a “very lethal” bomb which could have caused “multiple casualties:” “Like everyone in Spokane, I am concerned by the discovery of a bomb in our community, and I strongly condemn the individual or group who is responsible. We have zero tolerance for violence – or threats of violence – in our society. We thank the city workers who discovered the backpack and alerted the authorities. We also encourage anyone with information about the incident to notify the authorities immediately. While we shouldn’t jump to immediate conclusions, we will continue to monitor the situation closely, and as the investigation continues, the FBI and local authorities have our full support.” ###
01.10.2011	“This is a national tragedy” Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement after Rep. Gabrielle Giffords (AZ-08) and 11 others were victims of a shooting today. "I am deeply saddened and shocked by the shooting of Representative Gabrielle Giffords today. This was a senseless act and a national tragedy. I have had the pleasure of knowing Gabby through the Congressional Women’s Caucus and as members of the Armed Services Committee. I have always found her to be a smart, generous, and committed leader for the people of Arizona and America. I am praying for Rep. Giffords, all the victims of this terrible tragedy, and their families.” ###
01.10.2011	Washington, D.C. – Rep Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement after the Eastern Washington University Eagles won the NCAA Division I-AA National Championship: "I want to extend a heartfelt congratulations to Coach Baldwin and the Eagles who completed a remarkable season by winning the national championship. They have made all of Eastern Washingtonand our state very proud.”
01.07.2011	Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) joined three other Members of the Washington State delegation to welcome the newest member of the delegation, Rep. Jaime Herrera Beutler (WA-03), on her first day in office. Rep. Herrera Beutler was presented with a ceremonial painting by Rep. McMorris Rodgers, Rep. Norm Dicks (WA-06), Rep. Doc Hastings (WA-04), and Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08). The painting of a newly hatched chick is a traditional welcome to the newest member of the Washington State delegation from the other members. The tradition began in 1972 when the painting was purchased by then-Rep. Joel Pritchard. The painting has been passed down from Member to Member ever since. “Dave and I received the painting from Rick Larsen on our first day in office in 2005, and that little chick has been with us for the past six years,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Starting today, it has a new owner – a great new leader for Southwest Washington.”
01.07.2011	Washington, D.C. –Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) announced today she has been selected to serve on three subcommittees on the House Energy and Commerce Committee: Energy and Power, Health, and Environment and the Economy. Serving on the Energy and Commerce Committee in the 112th Congress will further enable Rep. McMorris Rodgers to be an influential advocate providing leadership on a broader spectrum of issues critical to Eastern Washington such as health care, technology, and energy independence. “As a member of the Energy and Commerce Committee, I am well positioned to lead on issues directly affecting our economy and national security,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “This is great news for our region because the Committee oversees legislation and Federal agencies critically impacting our future.” As the oldest standing Committee, the Energy and Commerce Committee has the broadest jurisdiction of any Permanent Committee in the House of Representatives overseeing five cabinet positions and seven independent agencies, including the Department of Energy, Department of Transportation, Department of Health and Human Services, and the Environmental Protection Agency. The Committee plays a lead role in health care and is responsible for implementing our nation’s energy policy. “My priority is listening to the people of Eastern Washington. We are fighting to free our economic engine that has been stifled by overregulation and uncertainty.” Since first being elected to Congress in 2004, Rep. McMorris Rodgers has made access to quality, affordable health care a top priority. She has worked on bipartisan legislation to use health information technology to improve access and quality, especially in rural areas. In 2005, Rep. McMorris Rodgers led a national task force to update and reform the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) to improve decision making for projects impacting our environment and economy. Rep. McMorris Rodgers has long championed a comprehensive energy independence strategy encompassing conservation and innovation while utilizing and expanding domestic energy sources. Eastern Washington is home to affordable, renewable, and clean energy, predominantly hydropower. In 2008, Rep. McMorris Rodgers founded the Congressional Hydropower Caucus to increase awareness as to the important role as well as the potential of hydropower to help meet our growing energy demands. “Energy independence and solutions play a key role in economic growth. Energy is critical to Eastern Washington’s agricultural community. I know our farming community is concerned with the rising price of energy and the resultant increases in fertilizer, irrigation, and water costs.” As part of her transition to Energy and Commerce, Rep. McMorris Rodgers will be vacating the following Committees: Education and Labor, Natural Resources, and Armed Services (HASC). “I have developed a strong working relationship with each of these Committee's Chairmen, which will allow me to continue to advance priorities which are important to Eastern Washington. “I will continue to be a proud and vocal champion of America’s brave service men and women and their families and remain Fairchild’s leading advocate in the halls of Congress.” The wife of a retired Navy pilot, Rep. McMorris Rodgers is the founder and Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus. She will continue to serve in that capacity. ###
01.07.2011	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, took the oath of office as part of the first day of the 112th Congress. She will be serving her fourth term in the U.S. House. “I am pleased and humbled to be part of a new Republican House Majority,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “We are committed to listening to the American people, making government more accountable and transparent, and taking proactive measures to grow our economy, create jobs, and put our fiscal house in order. As a member of the House Republican Leadership, I will work closely with Speaker Boehner and my colleagues in a bipartisan way to promote positive change for America’s future. “This upcoming term will be full of challenges – especially on the economic front – but it will also be full of opportunities, and I’m excited to be a part of it.” In the photo above, Rep. McMorris Rodgers is accompanied by her husband, Brian; their three-year old son, Cole; and their one-month-old baby, Grace.
12.20.2010	Deer Park Resident Began Journey in October 2009; Will Finish in New York City Next Month Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) met with Deer Park resident Jeana Moore in her Capitol Hill office today to discuss ways to raise awareness for the National Marrow Donor Program. Ms. Moore has been walking cross-country since October 2009 in a journey that she hopes will save lives the way her granddaughter’s life was saved. “I am so impressed by Jeana’s compassion and dedication to this important cause,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers, who represents Deer Park. “She is a true inspiration.” Ms. Moore’s granddaughter, Jada Bascom, nearly died as a newborn from acute myeloid leukemia. When Jada was 7 months old, she received a life-saving bone marrow transplant from a donor in Germany. For the past fourteen months, Ms. Moore has walked over 3,000 miles sharing Jada’s story, speaking at registry drives, and inspiring others to do a cheek swab to see if they could save a life. Ms. Moore’s journey will end in New York City in January 2011.
12.13.2010	Signed onto Amicus Brief Declaring Mandate Unconstitutional Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement after a federal judge in Virginia struck down the individual health care mandate as unconstitutional. Rep. McMorris Rodgers signed the American Center for Law and Justice (ACLJ)’s amicus brief in support of Virginia’s challenge. “I applaud Judge Hudson’s decision to find the individual mandate unconstitutional, and I am confident this will prove to be a pivotal step in our efforts to repeal and replace the government takeover of health care. I voted against that dangerous law for many reasons, and – as I said on the day Congress passed it – one of the most important reasons is that it will ‘erode the freedom of the American individual.’ We must continue to stand up for American citizens who have the constitutional right to decide what health care is best for themselves and their families.” The health care law will face another key test in Florida on Thursday when opening arguments begin in a case where 20 states are challenging the law. Rep. McMorris Rodgers signed onto the amicus brief there, as well. To watch Rep. McMorris Rodgers’ floor speech against the health care law, click here.
12.10.2010	Legislation Now Awaits President’s Signature Washington, DC – A bill introduced by Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) designating the FAA facility at Spokane International Airport the “Ray Daves Air Traffic Control Tower” (H.R. 5591) passed the U.S. Senate Thursday night. Since the bill has already passed the U.S. House, the next and final step is for President Obama to sign it. Ray Daves is a veteran of World War II and a retired air traffic controller who has made Spokane his home for the past 65 years. He recently celebrated his 90th birthday. “I am proud that Congress has taken this action on behalf of Ray Daves, who represents the best of the Spokane community and America,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “By naming the Control Tower after Ray, we will remind all those who enter the Tower of this great American, plus all the sacrifices that were made by Ray and his generation.” Ray Daves is a Pearl Harbor survivor, a Yorktown survivor, and a Purple Heart recipient. He currently volunteers his time to educate others about the Honor Flight program so all veterans may get a chance to visit the World War II Memorial built in their honor. On September 23, 2010, Rep. McMorris Rodgers submitted the following statement into the Congressional Record. Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers Floor Statement in Support of Ray Daves Air Traffic Control Tower Dedication H.R. 5591 Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 5591, to designate the Federal Aviation Administration facility at the Spokane International Airport in Spokane, Washington, as the “Ray Daves Air Traffic Control Tower.” I thank Chairman Oberstar and Ranking Member Mica for bringing the bill to the floor today. As the sponsor of this bill, it is with great pride I stand here today. Ray Daves is a Purple Heart receipt and Pearl Harbor survivor who served our nation aboard the USS Yorktown throughout the Pacific during World War II. While Ray’s military service alone warrants this dedication, his commitment to his country and community since leaving the military justifies it as well. For the last 65 years, Ray has made Spokane his home – first working as an air traffic controller and still to this day volunteering his time to educate others about the Honor Flight Program for World War II veterans. This recognition not only commemorates Ray’s sacrifices and accomplishments, but also those made by the greatest generation, whose sacrifices to our country will never be forgotten. I urge all of my colleagues to support HR 5591 and join me in thanking Ray Daves and those like him for his life of service. I yield the balance of my time. ###
12.01.2010	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers and her husband, Brian Rodgers, welcomed the arrival of their daughter today. She was born at 12:21 a.m. on December 1, 2010. She weighed 8 pounds, 4.5 ounces. “Brian and I are overjoyed by the birth of our daughter,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Both the baby and I are healthy and doing well at the hospital. We look forward to bringing her home soon.” The Rodgers’ first child, Cole, was born on April 29, 2007. Rep. McMorris Rodgers is the first Member of Congress to give birth twice while in office. ###
11.30.2010	Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today urging immediate action on extension of the current tax rates. “If Congress allows the current tax rates to expire on January 1, taxpayers will face a $3.9 trillion tax hike over the next 10 years—the largest tax increase in history. These higher taxes will be especially damaging to small businesses throughout Eastern Washington and across the country. “With 15 million Americans currently out of work, it makes no sense to take money out of the hands of small business—the backbone of our economy. Small businesses account for 70% of new jobs in America. Forcing them to pay higher taxes to the government means they are less likely to create jobs. “This fall my Republican colleagues and I signed a ‘Pledge to America’ to prevent tax increases as part of a new governing agenda. In keeping with that pledge, I urge Speaker Pelosi to hold an up-or-down vote on extending the tax rates which are essential to America’s economic recovery without further delay. No tax ever created a job in America, and raising taxes in the current economic climate would only increase the threat of a double-dip recession.” To watch Rep. McMorris Rodger speak about taxes at today’s Republican Leadership press conference, click here. ###
11.23.2010	Even Using Conservative Estimates, Cost to U.S. Taxpayers Would be Equal to Writing $1,800 Check to Every Person in Ireland Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement after Ireland agreed to a $137 billion bailout from the European Union and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). The U.S. is the largest contributor to the IMF, which has committed $382 billion to bail out Greece and the European Union. “While Ireland is a valued ally of the United States, I am very concerned by America’s continued involvement in the ‘gathering storm’ of European bailouts. The economic sickness caused by too much spending and borrowing has spread from Greece to Ireland, while larger economies – especially Spain and Italy – are at growing risk. At a time when the U.S. federal government is borrowing 40 cents of every dollar it spends, I am concerned by America’s growing exposure to Europe’s debt crisis. After all, when the time comes, who will bail out America?” Ireland is the second EU member to seek a global bailout. The package for Ireland will equal 60 percent of the nation’s Gross Domestic Product, compared with 47 percent for Greece. Even using conservative estimates, the U.S. share of the IMF/EU bailout would likely come to $1,800 per person in Ireland. “Since Ireland is a member of the EU – and the EU was set up to be an economic competitor of the United States – the EU should solve this problem without putting U.S. tax dollars at risk.” According to one major economist, a bailout of Portugal is “inevitable now.” A bailout of Spain equivalent to 60 percent of GDP would be $860 billion; for Italy, it would be $1.2 trillion. On March 24, 2010, Rep. McMorris Rodgers was the first Member of Congress to publicly oppose U.S. involvement in a European bailout – a bailout, which according to one leading IMF official – may cost U.S. taxpayers $50-100 billion or more. In April 2010, she said, “A Greek bailout today will encourage larger countries, such as Spain and Italy – which have similar problems – to get in line for American tax dollars tomorrow and continually delay the fiscal reforms that are necessary for a long-term recovery.” A full compilation of the Congresswoman’s work on this issue can be found here. ###
11.22.2010	Spokane, WA – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today upon learning of the death of Wendell Satre, the former chairman of the Washington Water Power Company. “It is with great sadness that I learned today of the passing of Wendell Satre. The first in his family to graduate from college and a veteran of World War II, Mr. Satre’s 46-year career at Washington Water Power featured many valuable contributions to our community. I admired his leadership for Spokane, and I learned a lot from him personally.” ###
11.19.2010	Congresswoman Warned Administration in April That Blank Check for Europe Would Cause “Gathering Storm” Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement after the Irish government opened negotiations with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) on a bailout which may cost over $80 billion. The U.S. is the largest contributor to the IMF, which has already committed $382 billion to bail out Greece and the European Union. “All across America, people are suffering from bailout fatigue. In the past two years, we’ve spent hundreds of billions of dollars to bail out Wall Street, GM, Chrysler, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and now we are being asked to contribute billions more to bail out Greece, Ireland, and other European nations which have spent and borrowed far beyond their means. At a time when America is already borrowing 40 cents of every dollar it spends, does it make sense for us to borrow more money (much of it from China) to help bailout Europe? A crisis caused by too much spending and borrowing will not be solved by more spending and borrowing. A ‘Euro-TARP’ is the wrong approach, and America should have no part in it.” On March 24, 2010, Rep. McMorris Rodgers was the first Member of Congress to publicly oppose U.S. involvement in a European bailout – a bailout, which according to one leading IMF official – may cost U.S. officials between $50-100 billion or more. She called for the Obama Administration to vote against the Greek bailout at the IMF meeting and introduced a Congressional Resolution opposing the bailout. In April 2010, she said, “The Obama Administration needs to understand that bailing out Greece will not solve Greece’s problems; it will only create a moral hazard that gets America more involved in the gathering storm of European bailouts…A Greek bailout today will encourage larger countries, such as Spain and Italy – which have similar problems – to get in line for American tax dollars tomorrow and continually delay the fiscal reforms that are necessary for a long-term recovery.” The growing likelihood of an Irish bailout confirms her diagnosis. A full compilation of the Congresswoman’s work on this issue can be found here. ###
11.17.2010	Washington, D.C. – Rep Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, was unanimously elected by her House Republican Colleagues today to serve a second term as Vice Chair. “I am proud to join with you and our Leadership Team as we usher in a new era of Republican leadership,” said Vice Chair McMorris Rodgers in her acceptance speech. As Vice Chair, Rep. McMorris Rodgers spearheaded several important projects which better connected the American people with Republican ideas – expanding and improving the Conference’s use of New Media, making government more transparent, publicizing and fighting government waste, and recruiting women candidates in the “Year of the Republican Woman.” In the 112th Congress, Vice Chair McMorris Rodgers will expand upon her accomplishments with New Media and women’s outreach, while leading new projects that will be critical to restoring trust and confidence in the U.S. House of Representatives. “We have a lot of work ahead of us. The challenges are great and time is critical, but the opportunities are even greater. By working together – and putting the interests of the American people first and foremost – I know we can govern as effectively in the majority as we did being the ‘Voice of the People’ in the minority.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers was first elected to Congress in 2004. Conference Vice Chair is the fifth-highest ranking position in the House Leadership. ###
11.16.2010	Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement after the U.S. House passed H. Res. 1641, Celebrating September 30, 2010, as the 60th Anniversary of Impact Aid: “For the past 60 years, Impact Aid has successfully assisted local communities in Eastern Washington with the substantial and continuing financial burden resulting from federal land ownership,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Whether in Nespelem, Wellpinit, Inchelium, Medical Lake or one of the many other school districts in my District, the Impact Aid program transcends all bounds and benefits a diverse and equally needy group of children.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers was an original co-sponsor of the bill. “As states and communities across the county tighten their budgets, it’s more important than ever that the federal government fulfill its contractually obligated responsibility to communities on time, every time. By passing this bill, I am pleased Congress has renewed its commitment to Impact Aid while reducing the bureaucratic paralysis plaguing an otherwise successful program.” The Congresswoman submitted the following statement into the Congressional Record. Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers Floor Statement in Support of House Resolution Designating September 30, 2010 as Impact Aid Recognition Day H. Res 1641 Madame Speaker, I rise today in support of House Resolution 1641, celebrating the 60th Anniversary of the Impact Aid Education Program. The Federal obligation upon which the Impact Aid Program was founded is no different today than it was at the program’s inception. Originally authorized in 1950, and for the last 60 years, Impact Aid has successfully assisted local governments and communities with the substantial and continuing financial burden resulting from federal land ownership. This year alone, in 1,484 school districts across the country, 15 million children have benefited from the necessary supplemental funding Impact Aid provides. Whether it is the Nespelem, Wellpinit, Inchelium, Medical Lake or one of the many other school districts in my District, the Impact Aid program transcends all bounds and benefits a diverse and equally needy group of children. Impact Aid is a contract between the Federal government and the local communities, and we must hold up our end of the deal. As states and communities across the county tighten their budgets, it is now more important than ever, that the Federal government fulfill its contractually obligated responsibility to communities on time, every time. On this 60th Anniversary, we have an opportunity to renew our commitment to Impact Aid and renew our drive to reduce the bureaucratic paralysis plaguing an otherwise successful program. Programs, like Impact Aid, where the Federal government provides the necessary support and empowers local communities to provide invaluable services, without burdensome one-size fits all regulation, should not only be applauded, but imitated. That is why I urge all of my colleagues to join me in supporting House Resolution 1641, celebrating the 60th Anniversary of the Impact Aid Education Program. ###
11.12.2010	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement in celebration of Veterans Day: “Today, we pay tribute to those brave men and women who have served our nation in uniform.We also honor the enduring service of our soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines, and Coast Guardsmen. Whether during peacetime or war, at home or abroad, their service has been characterized by selflessness and a sense of greater purpose. “Right now, our troops are answering the call in locations around the world. Soldiers and Marines patrol the streets of Iraq. Air Force pilots fly the skies over Afghanistan. The Navy and Coast Guard stand watch over troubled seas. Reservists and National Guardsmen continue to serve – often at the expense of their civilian jobs- on extended active duty for a year or more. “As these men and women have sacrificed, so too have their families. For each displaced service member, there is often a husband or wife left behind. These quiet patriots have kissed their spouse goodbye and sent them off to duty – often in harm’s way – without the assurance their loved one will ever return. Whatever accolades we bestow upon our veterans, we must also remember the sacrifice of their families. “Every November 11, America celebrates Veterans Day and honors its heroes. But we should recognize and appreciate our military men and women – both past and present – every single day. Let us continue to remember those heroes who have fought – and continue to fight – to protect the freedoms we all enjoy.”
11.05.2010	“Fed Should Stop Feeding Obama’s Spend & Borrow Addiction; Debasing the Dollar Will Hurt Working Families & Retirees” Washington, DC –Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today after the Federal Reserve announced it will inflate the currency by $600 billion in a new round of “quantitative easing.” “I am strongly opposed to the Fed’s decision to debase the American dollar by $600 billion. While the Fed claims its action will ‘stimulate’ the economy, it will fail just as badly as President Obama’s ‘stimulus’ because it promotes short-term consumption, debt, and uncertainty in the private sector while penalizing working families, retirees, and especially entrepreneurs who need a large pool of savings to start new businesses, expand current ones, and stay on the cutting-edge.” On September 21, the Federal Reserve announced its readiness to start another round of “quantitative easing.” The next day, Forbes ran the Congresswoman’s op-ed, Reverse the Fed’s Monetary Policies. This made her the first, and – until today – one of only a small number of House members to publicly oppose the Fed’s latest round of inflationary policies. “Every dollar that is essentially created out of thin air by the Federal Reserve weakens the value of those dollars which are currently held by the American people. The Fed’s actions will lead to inflation and undermine the purchasing power of an already vulnerable middle class. Instead of feeding President Obama’s spend-and-borrow addiction, the Federal Reserve needs to protect the integrity of the dollar. Otherwise, we are pushing the pedal on the road to bankruptcy.” A copy of the Congresswoman’s op-ed is below. Forbes.com Reverse the Fed’s Monetary Policies by Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) As a believer in the free enterprise system, I believe the best thing the federal government can do to spark our economic recovery is to create a favorable climate for small-business owners to expand and create jobs. Such a climate must include a lower tax burden, reasonable regulations, less public borrowing, open markets and a sound currency. For the past year and a half, the Obama administration has followed the opposite policies–going on a tax, spend and borrow binge of historic proportions–and the results, including the loss of three million private sector jobs, have been tragic. But while the failure of President Obama's fiscal policies are evident and well-known, less attention has been paid to the failure of the Federal Reserve's monetary policies–specifically, its easy money program that enables the administration's spend-and-borrow addiction. I believe reversing the Fed's policy is essential to getting our economy back on track. Since 2008 the Fed has kept short-term interest rates at nearly 0% and bought about $1.4 trillion in mortgage-linked securities and debts. The main reason for these policies is to stimulate borrowing in the private sector, including–whenever necessary–shifting the cost of toxic assets from Wall Street to the taxpayer. This hasn't worked, however. In the second quarter of 2010, for instance, bank lending dropped by $96 billion, even while bank profits surged by $22 billion. This seems counterintuitive, but there's a strange logic to it: With the private sector engulfed in so much uncertainty because of the government's spending, borrowing, and bailouts, banks are reducing credit to businesses, while increasing their purchase of government debt. The banks take in low-cost funds from the Fed and then lend it back to the government at a higher rate. This produces a small profit that–when done on a large enough scale–can become quite lucrative, indeed. Because of this distortion, the Fed's low interest rates make it harder–not easier–for the private sector to get credit. Meanwhile, savers and investors–ordinary citizens who are building their nest egg for retirement–are getting little return on their money. Banks are paying 0.97% interest to their depositors–the lowest level since at least 1984, when the FDIC started keeping records. The question is, why is the Fed taking this path which seems so destructive? This is where things get interesting. As I mentioned earlier, the Fed's low-interest rate policy does have a clear benefactor: the federal government. In the past two years, Washington D.C.'s appetite for borrowing has grown enormously. Since President Obama took office in January 2009, he has borrowed $2.6 trillion and he expects the government to borrow another $10 trillion over the next ten years. Keeping the costs of that borrowing down isn't just a luxury; it's a necessity. That's where the Fed comes in. By keeping interest rates low, it encourages banks to lend to the government, even at the expense of the private sector. After all–from the bank's perspective–Treasuries are "safe" while the private sector–overburdened with higher taxes starting Jan. 1, new health care mandates, and the potential costs of cap and trade is "risky." A flood of money is pouring into Washington. But how much longer can that continue? Think about it: In the immediate aftermath of the 2001 recession, the Fed kept interest rates extremely low for several years to "prime the pump" of the U.S. economy. But what some call "pump priming" others call "easy money." And a lot of that "easy money" was dumped into housing which was considered "safe" (after all, housing prices "always" go up). When the housing bubble burst in 2007, it had devastating effects–effects we're still grappling with today. Today, Treasuries are considered "safe" even while others worry about a "Treasury Bubble." As we saw this year in Greece and the European Union, the idea that government debt is "safe" is illusory, and the shift from euphoria to fear–as people grow concerned about the government's ability to pay back their debts–can happen in the blink of an eye. Knowing that, the Fed's policy to make it easier for Washington to borrow money–$5 billion per day, over $1 trillion per year–seems dangerous, at best; reckless, at worst. To grow our economy, we need a fiscal and monetary policy that encourages saving and investment; not spending and borrowing. The Fed can do its part by bringing interest rates closer to their historical average and stopping its plan–approved on Aug. 10–to purchase long-term Treasury securities. Congress and the White House can do its part by implementing a series of tax reforms to encourage savings and investment. For starters, we should extend the tax cuts of 2001 and 2003 which are set to expire in about 100 days. Then we should undertake more comprehensive reforms. I've signed onto legislation introduced by Rep. Jim Jordan, R-Ohio, and Rep. Jason Chaffetz, R-Utah, The Economic Freedom Act, which would cut the Payroll Tax in half, eliminate the Capital Gains Tax, reduce the Corporate Tax Rate to 12.5%, provide immediate business expensing, and give the death penalty to the death tax. When taken together, these policies will create a favorable climate for businesses to grow, innovate, and create jobs. No country in history became rich by overspending and borrowing; the key to growth has always been savings and investment. Let's renew our commitment–painfully absent over the past two years–to encourage the most fundamental American virtues–savings and investment–nd discourage the vices that have mired us in stagnation: overspending and debt. We can do better, we must do better, and we need to do it now. Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers is vice chair of the House Republican Conference and represents Washington State's Fifth Congressional District.
11.03.2010	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, announced today that she is running for re-election as Vice Chair of the Conference. “As Vice Chair, I have worked closely with our Leadership team while spearheading several important projects – expanding and improving the Conference’s use of New Media, making government more transparent, publicizing and fighting government waste, and recruiting women candidates in the ‘Year of the Republican Woman,’” Rep. McMorris Rodgers wrote in a letter to her colleagues. Rep. McMorris Rodgers was first elected to Congress in 2004 and has served as Vice Chair of the Conference for the past two years. “Looking ahead to the 112th Congress, I am eager to expand on my accomplishments with New Media and women’s outreach, while spearheading new projects that will be critical to our Party’s future,” Rep. McMorris Rodgers added. “We have every right to be proud of Tuesday’s election results but to be successful in the long term, we must to a better job of appealing to a broad spectrum of Americans. I want to be at the forefront our effort to rebrand our Party to better connect with Americans,” Rep. McMorris Rodger further added. “I hope that my accomplishments in Leadership – plus my generous contributions to the NRCC – prove that I am a ‘workhorse, not a show horse,’ a faithful servant of the Republican cause, and a worthy voice for the rising generation of young Republican leaders,” Rep. McMorris Rodgers concluded. A copy of the full letter is below. Dear Member: I am writing to ask for your support for Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference. Since you elected me Vice Chair in 2008, it has been my privilege to serve shoulder-to-shoulder with you as we successfully returned from the "political wilderness" to a strong Majority in a single election. As Vice Chair, I have worked closely with our Leadership team while spearheading several important projects – expanding and improving the Conference's use of New Media, making government more transparent, publicizing and fighting government waste, and recruiting women candidates in the "Year of the Republican Woman." To preserve our Majority in Congress, we must lead by being faithful to our core values – "smaller, smarter government," living within our means, and unleashing the power of free enterprise. We were fired in 2006 and punished again in 2008 because we did not live up to these principles and we cannot – must not – repeat those mistakes. As you know, I am a strong, principled conservative on fiscal, social, and national security issues. As Vice Chair, I have been an outspoken voice for cutting taxes, reducing spending, and ending the bailouts. This year, Chairman Pence and I led the fight against President Obama's plan to include up to $100 billion of U.S. tax money in the $1 trillion bailout of Greece and the European Union. Looking ahead to the 112th Congress, I am eager to expand on my accomplishments with New Media and women's outreach, while spearheading new projects that will be critical to our Party's future. We have every right to be proud of Tuesday's election results but to be successful in the long term our Party still needs to do a better job of appealing to a broad spectrum of Americans. I want to be at the forefront of our effort to rebrand our Party to better connect with Americans. Ultimately, our "brand" and success as a Party depend on how well we revive the American economy and provide jobs and security for the middle class. As Vice Chair, I will lead a working group of Members on American competitiveness and focus on key policy solutions to keep America the world's economic leader for another generation. Once again, I thank you for your consideration for Conference Vice Chair, and I humbly ask for your support. My accomplishments on Leadership – plus my significant contributions to the NRCC – prove that I am a "workhorse, not a show horse," a faithful servant of the Republican cause, and a worthy voice for the rising generation of young Republican leaders. Thank you for your continued confidence in me. I look forward to working with you to meet the challenges – and seize the opportunities – in this land we love: The United States of America. Sincerely, Cathy McMorris RodgersMember of Congress
10.29.2010	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today after the federal government announced that economic growth in the third quarter came in at a paltry 2.0 percent. “Like all Americans, I am extremely disappointed about today’s GDP report which is further evidence that President Obama’s ‘spend, borrow, and bailout’ policies have failed. In the last two years, the federal government has borrowed about $3 trillion, spent about $7 trillion, and yet we have lost almost 3 million private sector jobs. The President calls this ‘progress.’ In reality, it’s the weakest record of economic growth following a recession since the Great Depression.” “To grow our economy, we need to change course with a new program that puts the private sector – not Big Government – in charge of America’s economic destiny. We need to stop the job-killing tax hikes, reduce government spending, end the bailouts, and put our fiscal house in order. With the national debt growing $5 billion per day, the time for action is long past due.” ###
10.29.2010	Spokane – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) issued the following statement after members of the Kansas-based Westboro Baptist Church spread hateful and radical messages at several protests across Spokane. “I am appalled by the hatred, anger and bigotry that these activists have incited here in Spokane and across the Inland Northwest. Their protests – primarily targeted at young students at Gonzaga, Whitworth University and Ferris High School – are full of intolerant sentiments and hateful rhetoric.” “I condemn these fanatical views, and I am extremely proud of the Spokane community for coming together to speak out against them. I especially want to acknowledge the faithful work of the Patriot Guard. Our community has been unequivocal in its message against bigotry and radicalism. In the wake of hatred, Spokane has responded with peace.”
10.08.2010	Spokane – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today after the Labor Department issued a new report showing the economy lost 95,000 jobs last month: “After months of broken promises, the American people are once again asking President Obama and Speaker Pelosi, ‘Where are the Jobs?’ Today’s unemployment numbers are another reminder of the tough economic situation facing Eastern Washington and the country. After 14 consecutive months of the unemployment rate being stuck above 9.5 percent, it is painfully clear that our families and small businesses are bearing the burden of this Administration’s failed economic policies. It’s time for a new direction. I’ve taken the ‘Pledge to America,’ which – if enacted – would create jobs, revitalize our economy, and put our fiscal house in order.”
10.07.2010	Washington – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement today in response to expansion plans announced by Schweitzer Engineering Laboratories, a manufacturing firm headquartered in Pullman, WA: “Today’s announcement by CEO Ed Schweitzer shows how Eastern Washington is a global leader in cutting-edge, 21st century energy innovation and manufacturing, and that federal policies need to encourage and support this type of entrepreneurial leadership and dynamism.” SEL announced today that the company has over 160 career opportunities open, and rolled out plans to build a Solution Delivery Center in Pullman, Washington. In a statement, SEL CEO Ed Schweitzer said in part: “These are exciting times for SEL and I am positive about the future…even in the face of unprecedented political and economic uncertainty …we create our future through hard work and innovation. We’ve been saving up our money, and now it’s time to start building!” SEL serves the electric power industry worldwide through the design, manufacture, supply, and support of products and services for power system protection, monitoring, control, automation, and metering. SEL offers unmatched local technical support, a worldwide, ten-year product warranty, and a commitment to making electric power safer, more reliable, and more economical. ###
10.01.2010	“2010 Will Be The ‘Year of the Conservative Woman’” WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference and the only Republican woman in either the House or Senate to be a member of Leadership, made a rousing call for conservative women to become more involved in the political process and help lead an American Renaissance during her keynote speech at the Smart Girl Politics Summit today. “I believe 2010 will be known as the ‘Year of the Conservative Woman,’” said Vice Chair McMorris Rodgers. “This year, people are hungry for change – real change – and they are starting to notice that the real agents of change are conservative women.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers is the National Republican Congressional Committee (NRCC)’s lead recruiter of women candidates. In 2010, 107 Republican women ran for the U.S. House – an all-time record and almost double the number who ran in the last cycle. “When the next Congress begins session, these conservative women will take Washington by storm. And they will have a powerful impact on solving the key challenges facing our country.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers cited four reasons for the rise of conservative women this year: President Obama’s failed economic policies, the government takeover of health care, the growth of New Media, and the hunger for “real change” among the electorate. Smart Girl Politics is a grassroots organization that promotes the opinions and principles of conservative women. It was founded in 2008 by Stacy Mott and Teri Christoph. Today it is one of the fastest growing premier social networks for conservative women in the country. Their united voice is now over 30,000 women strong and growing daily. ###
09.30.2010	RSC Takes Top Prize in Contest That Generated 1 Million Views WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, announced the winners of the Conference’s iGOP Video Challenge today. “I am excited to announce that the Republican Study Committee’s entry, Those Voices Don’t Speak for the Rest of Us, won the iGOP Video Challenge and was one of the most viewed videos on YouTube in August,” said Vice Chair McMorris Rodgers. “Earlier this year, CitizenTube reported that Republicans hold 8 of the 10 most-viewed and most-subscribed channels in Congress. Ultimately, our success as House Republicans is rooted in our understanding of the importance of regular, substantive, online engagement.” The entries for this year’s iGOP Video Challenge collectively received about one million views. Rep. Tom Price (GA-06), Chairman of the Republican Study Committee, issued the following statement: “The remarkable success of this video is really a testament to the American people who are troubled by Washington’s spending habits, higher taxes, and new mandates,” said Congressman Price. “President Reagan put forth a simple but powerful message and a commitment to a smaller, more accountable government, and it is a belief that clearly resonates today. By utilizing this level of new media outreach, we have the opportunity to connect with a larger audience and impact the debate from innovative angles.” Republican Whip Eric Cantor (VA-07), whose video A Look at the National Debt was #1 in the leadership video category, released this statement: “This video is part of our innovative YouCut program, which is designed to defeat the permissive culture of runaway spending in Congress and transform it into a culture of savings. We will continue to communicate directly with the American people through a variety of vehicles so that Congress once again starts working for the people who pay for it.” Rep. Jeff Miller (FL-01), whose video Working Hard for Northwest Florida was #1 in the Member video category, commented: “My team will continue experimenting with online video as it provides an excellent opportunity to communicate with constituents. New Media in general provides us with a unique opportunity to chronicle community events, and in doing so, become a trusted information source for our constituents.”
09.29.2010	Washington – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement after the U.S. House voted to adjourn without extending the tax cuts of 2001 and 2003 which are scheduled to expire on January 1, 2011: “I am very disappointed that Speaker Pelosi and the Majority in Congress voted to adjourn without holding an up-or-down vote on these beneficial tax cuts which are essential to America’s recovery. Whenever I meet with small businesses owners in Eastern Washington, they constantly mention the economic uncertainty caused by the Majority’s agenda – the threat of higher taxes, the cost of new health care mandates, the potential that other burdensome regulations may be coming soon – as the chief reason for their lack of growth and job creation. The fact that Congress would adjourn without extending the tax cuts of 2001 and 2003 – putting America’s families and small businesses at risk of a $3.9 trillion tax increase over the next 10 years – and exacerbating the economic uncertainty already felt throughout the nation – is the height of irresponsibility and recklessness.” “I believe we should extend the tax cuts of 2001 and 2003 and we should have done it today. No tax ever created a job in America. And if Congress reconvenes in November and President Obama and Speaker Pelosi go through with their plan of raising taxes, it will increase the threat of a double-dip recession.” To watch the Congresswoman’s remarks at today’s Leadership press conference, click here. ###
09.29.2010	Washington, DC – The U.S. House passed legislation (H.R. 5591) Tuesday night introduced by Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) designating the FAA facility at Spokane International Airport the “Ray Daves Air Traffic Control Tower.” Ray Daves is a veteran of World War II and a retired air traffic controller who has made Spokane his home for the past 65 years. He recently celebrated his 90th birthday. “I am proud the House has taken this action on behalf of Ray Daves, who represents the best of the Spokane community and America,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “By naming the Control Tower after Ray, we will remind all those who enter the Tower of this great American, plus all the sacrifices that were made by Ray and his generation.” Ray Daves is a Pearl Harbor survivor, a Yorktown survivor, and a Purple Heart recipient. He currently volunteers his time to educate others about the Honor Flight program so all veterans may get a chance to visit the World War II Memorial built in their honor. The Congresswoman submitted the following statement into the Congressional Record. Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers Floor Statement in Support of Ray Daves Air Traffic Control Tower Dedication H.R. 5591 Madam Speaker, I rise today in strong support of H.R. 5591, to designate the Federal Aviation Administration facility at the Spokane International Airport in Spokane, Washington, as the “Ray Daves Air Traffic Control Tower.” I thank Chairman Oberstar and Ranking Member Mica for bringing the bill to the floor today. As the sponsor of this bill, it is with great pride I stand here today. Ray Daves is a Purple Heart receipt and Pearl Harbor survivor who served our nation aboard the USS Yorktown throughout the Pacific during World War II. While Ray’s military service alone warrants this dedication, his commitment to his country and community since leaving the military justifies it as well. For the last 65 years, Ray has made Spokane his home – first working as an air traffic controller and still to this day volunteering his time to educate others about the Honor Flight Program for World War II veterans. This recognition not only commemorates Ray’s sacrifices and accomplishments, but also those made by the greatest generation, whose sacrifices to our country will never be forgotten. I urge all of my colleagues to support HR 5591 and join me in thanking Ray Daves and those like him for his life of service. I yield the balance of my time. ###
09.23.2010	Washington – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement marking the six-month anniversary of ObamaCare. “Six months ago, Speaker Pelosi said ‘we have to pass the bill so you can find out what’s in it.’ Well, six months have passed and hard working families, employees, and small business owners have read the bill and they have found a disaster.” The Obama/Pelosi health care bill was signed into law on March 23, 2010 over the objections of the vast majority of Americans who understood how the bill would negatively affect America’s health care system. In the last six months, more facts have come to light and the bill has grown increasingly unpopular. The top 10 problems with the bill include… Eliminate jobs– According to a recent estimate from the National Federation of Independent Business, 1.6 million jobs will be lost between 2009-2014 as a result of the Obama/Pelosi health care law. Increase healthcare costs– The Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services said that the new health care law will increase health care spending by 6.3 percent annually and will cause health care to consume almost 20 percent of our Gross Domestic Product. Increase the deficit and debt–The Congressional Budget Office recently adjusted its estimates of the health care law’s effect on our nation’s debt and determined that under the new law our deficit and debt will increase because the Obama/Pelosi health care overhaul did not address the real problems with the system like the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR), entitlement reform, and the rampant waste fraud and abuse. Increase taxes and regulations on Americans and small businesses– The Obama/Pelosi health care law will impose numerous new taxes on individuals and medical devices and unprecedented mandates. Furthermore, the new 1099 mandate requires businesses to report to the IRS annual purchases from any contractor above $600 – a huge and unnecessary compliance cost. Decrease access and quality of care for seniors–Even before the Obama/Pelosi health care law was enacted, Medicare was not sustainable. ObamaCare will exacerbate the problem. In Washington State alone, seniors will be cut out on $500 billion in Medicare and over 22,000 seniors will lose their Medicare Advantage. Decrease choice in your healthcare coverage– By decreasing reimbursement rates and imposing new mandates on employers, individuals and families will have decreased quality of care and less access to the services they need most. Allow taxpayer funded abortions– An Executive Order is not law, and taxpayer funds will be used to subsidize entities that perform abortions. Increase the number of Federal Government dependents– 34 million Americans now will rely solely on the Federal government for health care. Increase premiums for individuals, families, and businesses– The Wall Street Journal reported that the new health care law is causing rates to increase up to 20 percent for some buyers. On average, the health care law will result in a $2,100 increase in annual health care premiums for individuals and families. Increase emergency room visits– Because Medicaid recipients use the emergency room as their primary care facility and the law now drastically increases the number of Medicaid participants, it will increase emergency room visits. “There is no doubt there are flaws in our health care system but an expansion of the federal government and increased spending is not the answer,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Real reform includes increasing access by allowing individuals and small business to purchase insurance across state lines, eliminating waste, fraud and abuse, and reforming the medical liability system. I support repealing the Obama/Pelosi health care bill and replacing it with solutions that will lower costs, empower patients, and ensure that seniors and our dependents receive the care and decency they deserve.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers voted against the Obama/Pelosi bill on March 21, 2010. To watch her floor speech, click here.
09.23.2010	Washington, DC –Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, was honored today by the National Federation of Independent Businesses (NFIB) and presented with their Guardian of Small Business Award for supporting policies that will help this critical sector of our economy grow and create jobs. “I am proud to accept the NFIB’s Guardian of Small Business Award,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “The NFIB is the leading voice for America’s small business community, and I’ve enjoyed working with them on shared priorities, including lower taxes, stopping harmful regulations, increasing workplace flexibility, and preserving the secret ballot for workers.” Guardian awards are given to U.S. Senators and Members of Congress who vote favorably on key small business issues at least 70% of the time. The NFIB is the leading small business association representing small and independent businesses. A nonprofit, nonpartisan organization founded in 1943, NFIB represents the consensus views of its members in Washington, D.C. and all 50 state capitals. ###
09.22.2010	(Washington, D.C.) – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Co-Chair of the Military Family Caucus, joined Senate and House Co-Chairs, Senator Barbara Boxer (D-CA) and Rep. Sanford Bishop (D-GA), for the release of the 2010 Blue Star Families Military Family Lifestyle survey today. The survey, Military Family Empowerment, Wellness, and Community, represents a comprehensive review of over 3,600 military families from across the services. The survey addresses several main issues facing the military family community, including spouse employment support and opportunities, deployments, and family stress and mental health. “America’s military families have needs that are not being met, but with your contributions here today, we can better understand those needs and begin to address them,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers at today’s event. The Military Family Caucus Joint Session included extensive testimony from military families about the unique challenges they face during and after deployments. In addition, officials from the Department of Defense and Department of Veterans Affairs shared their expertise on the necessity of supporting military families for the overall strength and success of America’s military. “The 2010 Military Family Lifestyle Survey will really help us improve the lives of the families who make sacrifices for our country,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “This survey will serve as the continuation of a fruitful and ongoing dialogue that will ultimately leave our nation and families safer and stronger.”
09.16.2010	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) released the following statement today after the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) announced a new pilot in the Spokane region that will improve the portability of health information to veterans and active duty servicemembers. The Spokane VA Medical Center and Fairchild Air Force Base will partner with Inland Northwest Health Services (INHS), one of the nation’s most recognized health information exchange networks, to securely exchange electronic health record (EHR) information using the Nationwide Health Information Network as a next step towards the implementation of the historic Virtual Lifetime Electronic Record. “I am very excited by today’s announcement which demonstrates Spokane’s continued leadership in health technology and innovation. With Spokane becoming only the fourth community in the nation to help expand health information data sharing for veterans and active duty servicememebers, we have a lot of proud of. I thank the VA, INHS, and the Defense Department for their outstanding leadership and teamwork on behalf of Spokane’s heroes.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers has worked on this issue since she first took office, including personally meeting with VA and Department of Defense (DOD) officials when she found out that thousands of medical encounters in Spokane never got reported back to doctors at the VA or the clinic at Fairchild. A national effort is underway to promote the use of EHRs, which are seen as critical to improving the quality and efficiency of the country’s health care system. Clinicians from the participating organizations can share authorized patient data electronically, ensuring around-the-clock access to critical health information. This immediate electronic access supports increased accuracy, efficiency and safety. Since more than half of America's veterans and active duty servicemembers receive some portion of their health care outside of the VA or Defense Department facilities, interoperability between federal agencies and the private sector is essential to provide the best care for veterans, servicemembers, and their dependents. The Nationwide Health Information Network is the set of standards, specifications and policies that enable the secure exchange of health information over the Internet between treating physicians, when authorized by a patient. The VA will invite veterans who already receive health care from the VA and selected hospitals and providers in the Spokane area to sign up for the pilot which will run through 2012.
09.13.2010	Spokane – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement regarding the terrorist attacks on September 11th, 2001. “Today, the nation remembers the 3,000 innocent civilians and first responders who lost their lives nine years ago in the worst terrorist attack in U.S. history. “This somber anniversary is a reminder of the continuing threat our country faces from terrorism. We should honor and thank the first responders who protect our communities and the brave men and women serving in the Armed Forces and government agencies who work tirelessly both at home and abroad to prevent another attack against our country. “In particular, I want to recognize the brave men and women of Fairchild Air Force Base and their families for their heroic efforts in the Global War on Terror. Their commitment and sacrifice allow us to enjoy the day-to-day freedom and privileges of living in the United States. As a grateful nation, we must continue to keep them in our thoughts and prayers and give them all the support they need.”
08.30.2010	SPOKANE – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) hosted a successful town hall meeting in Spokane today. The town hall, which was sponsored byAmerica Speaking Out – a new project led by House Republicans to solicit ideas from the public – focused on jobs, spending, health care, government reform, and national security. “After years of bad policy and broken politics, America is at the crossroads,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “The people of Eastern Washington recognize – as I do – that a crisis caused by too much government spending, borrowing, and bailouts will not be solved with more spending, borrowing, and bailouts.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers voted against the $700 billion Wall Street bailout, the $787 billion economic “stimulus” bill, and the $1.3 trillion radical health care bill. “To rejuvenate our economy and put our fiscal house in order, I support a balanced budget amendment and a constitutional amendment to limit federal spending,” said the Congresswoman. “I also want to repeal the government takeover of health care and replace it with practical solutions that lower medical costs and improve outcomes.” America Speaking Out features an interactive website where any citizen can submit a policy idea, promote their idea, debate the ideas posted by others, and share those ideas with their friends via Facebook and Twitter. In four months, 14,000 ideas have been posted on ASO and 700,000 votes have been cast. “Through the ASO website and town halls, Republicans in Congress are listening to the people. And if we listen to the people – instead of expanding the power of Big Government – I know we can keep the American Dream alive for the next generation.” ###
08.30.2010	Spokane – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) spoke at the dedication of the new Armed Forces Reserve Center at Fairchild Air Force Base today. Rep. McMorris Rodgers was joined by Lieutenant Colonel Andrew Bessmer, Major General Glenn Lesniak and Colonel Tim Bush in a ribbon-cutting ceremony at the Air Force Base. “Today, we celebrate the construction of revolutionary new training buildings, maintenance shops, storage facilities, and equipment and supply units,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “We celebrate – and thank – the 13 Army Reserve units and 10 Washington Army National Guard units that will use this brand new facility to promote advancement and efficiency in their continued fight for our country.” This project, which began when BRAC legislation was passed five years ago, included the construction of a $29.5 million consolidated Armed Forces Reserve Center and Organizational Maintenance Shop on approximately 30 acres at Fairchild AFB. These state-of-the-art facilities will lead to a more efficient and well-trained fighting force. Rep. McMorris Rodgers is Fairchild’s leading advocate in Congress. She is a member of the House Armed Services Committee and Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus. She continues to be a proud and vocal champion of America’s service men and women and their families. ###
08.16.2010	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Ranking Member on the Workforce Protection Subcommittee, received the “Best of Congress Award” by Working Mother Media and Corporate Voices for Working Families today. The “Best of Congress Award” spotlights the Congresswoman’s support for family-friendly workplace legislation and practicing pro-family policies in her office. “I am very proud to accept the ‘Best of Congress Award,’” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “As a working mom, I understand the rewards of motherhood plus the challenges of striking a work-life balance. As a member of Congress, I’ve championed legislation to change federal statutes which were enacted more than 30 years ago and no longer reflect the needs of 21st century families.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers is the author of H.R. 933, The Family-Friendly Workplace Act. This bill would allow private-sector employers and employees to work together to determine whether overtime pay or comp time for extra hours worked is most beneficial. “We are honored to recognize Cathy McMorris Rodgers as being one of the Best of Congress Award recipients,” said Tiffany Westover-Kernan Vice President of Business Development and Government Relations at Corporate Voices. “Representative McMorris Rodgers is a working mom who is passionate about issues involving working families and recognizes how difficult it is for working men and women to balance work and life responsibilities.” Corporate Voices for Working Families is the leading national business membership organization representing the private sector on public and corporate policy issues involving working families. Working Mother magazine reaches 2 million readers and is the only national magazine for career-committed mothers. Rep. McMorris Rodgers is one of 30 Members of Congress to receive this year’s award.
08.16.2010	Washington, DC –Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, received “Taxpayer Hero” status from the Council for Citizens Against Government Waste (CCAGW) as part of their 2009 Congressional Ratings released today. “I am proud to be named a ‘Taxpayer Hero’ by this outstanding organization for taxpayer rights,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Citizens Against Government Waste shares my commitment to cutting wasteful government spending, lowering the debt burden on our children and grandchildren, and supporting freedom – not bureaucracy – to grow our economy. I’ve enjoyed working with them – and I will continue to work with them – to put our fiscal house in order.” The Council for Citizens Against Government Waste is the lobbying arm of Citizens Against Government Waste, the nation’s largest nonpartisan, nonprofit organization dedicated to eliminating waste, fraud, abuse, and mismanagement in government.
07.29.2010	Bill Will Lead to Better Decision-Making on Hydropower Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) today introduced The Endangered Species Compliance and Protection Act. This bill would require Power Marketing Administrations, including the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA), to separate out and report the costs associated with the Endangered Species Act (ESA) to each customer. “In Eastern Washington – and throughout America – the benefits of hydropower aren’t being fully tapped because of billions of dollars in excessive regulatory costs to mitigate unproven environmental effects,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “In the Pacific Northwest, for example, 30 percent of wholesale power rates go to compliance programs for endangered salmon. Despite the growing costs, many consumers don’t know how much they’re paying for salmon protection, or whether they’re paying at all. They have a right to know how their money is being spent. That’s why today I’ve introduced The Endangered Species Compliance and Transparency Act. By empowering consumers with critical information, my bill will contribute to better decision-making about the use of hydropower and make hydropower move available to meet our economy’s growing energy needs.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers, founder of the Congressional Hydropower Caucus, is a strong champion for this valuable energy resource. Hydropower is a clean, renewable source of energy that provides low-cost electricity and helps reduce carbon emissions. In addition, multi-purpose dams provide water for irrigation, wildlife, recreation and barge transportation and offer flood control benefits. A court-mandated spill in 2004 helped make BPA the federal agency with the highest ESA compliance costs in the nation. BPA estimates that they have spent approximately $500 million annually on ESA-related compliance costs in recent years. By law, the agency passes on all of these costs to its wholesale customers. A 2005 poll found that 70 percent of customers either didn’t know how much they paid for salmon recovery or believe that recovery accounted for less than 5 percent of their monthly bills. Rep. McMorris Rodgers introduced The Endangered Species Transparency Act in the 110th Congress, but it did not become law.
07.26.2010	Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, participated in several celebrations today recognizing the 20th anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). On July 26, 1990, President George H.W. Bush signed the ADA – which was passed with bipartisan support in both Houses of Congress – into law. The ADA prohibited discrimination against people with disabilities, ensured equal access in public accommodations, and spurred greater opportunities for education, employment, and independent living. “The ADA was one of the most important civil rights achievements in U.S. history,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers at a press conference today hosted by Majority Leader Steny Hoyer (D-MD) and Sen. Tom Harkin (D-IA), two of the original champions of the 1990 law. “This landmark bill gave more than 50 million Americans – including my son Cole, who was born with Down syndrome – the opportunity to live the American Dream.” “I want to thank the incredible community of people with disabilities – a community that welcomed me and my family with open arms – for organizing and advocating for this bill,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers in her House floor speech today. “They are ordinary citizens who – by working together in a common cause – achieved extraordinary things.” “We’ve come a long way in 20 years, but we still have a long way to go. Let’s use today’s anniversary as inspiration to create a ‘more perfect union’ for people with disabilities and all Americans.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers will join President Obama and several other members of Congress at a commemoration of the 20th anniversary of the ADA at the South Lawn later today. On July 21, 2010, the American Association of People with Disabilities (AAPD) recognized Rep. McMorris Rodgers for her leadership on behalf of disabled Americans by honoring her with their “Justice for All” award. To watch the Congresswoman’s floor speech today, click here.
07.21.2010	Washington, DC – The American Association of People with Disabilities (AAPD) recognized Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) for her leadership on behalf of the disability community by honoring her with their “Justice for All” award at a bipartisan event today celebrating the 20th anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). “I am proud to accept the ‘Justice for All’ Award,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “The birth of my son Cole – who was born with Down syndrome – gave me a new perspective on life and a new passion in Congress. I’ve used this passion to advocate for policies ranging from increasing access to a quality education for special needs students to creating more opportunities for disabled Americans to live independently through the establishment of ABLE Accounts.” In addition to Rep. McMorris Rodgers, AAPD bestowed awards on Rep. Patrick Kennedy (D-RI); former Senator and ADA author Lowell Weicker; President and CEO of Bayer Corporation and Bayer MaterialScience Greg Babe and Edwin Black, author of War against the Weak. “We’re delighted to honor Representatives Kennedy and McMorris Rodgers, Lowell Weicker, Greg Babe and Edwin Black for their significant work in the political, economic and social empowerment of the disability community as we celebrate the 20th anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act,” said Andrew J. Imparato, President and CEO of AAPD. “Twenty years ago, disabled Americans were destined to a life of confinement – to constant supervision and control,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “I want the next 20 years to be years of empowerment and independence. I look forward to working with AAPD and my colleagues on future policies that facilitate independence among disabled Americans and give them the resources they need to succeed.”
07.21.2010	“Bailout Bonanza Must Come to an End” Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement after the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), Neil Barofsky, announced today that “Federal support for the nation’s financial system…has actually increased 23% over the past year, from approximately $3 trillion to $3.7 trillion.” “To enjoy the benefits of a free market economy, the federal government can’t continue to take trillions of dollars away from hard-working families and small businesses and use that money to reward the politically connected,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “By creating such an enormous moral hazard, the government is perpetuating a climate of uncertainty which limits investment, growth, and job creation. There can't be a full recovery on Main Street until we stop Washington's growing culture of bailouts.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers opposed the Wall Street bailout, the auto bailout, and is leading the charge against U.S. participation in the International Monetary Fund’s $320 billion bailout of the European Union.
06.29.2010	Washington, DC –Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) announced today that she has introduced legislation (H.R. 5591) to designate the FAA facility at Spokane International Airport the “Ray Daves Air Traffic Control Tower.” Ray Daves is a veteran of World War II and a retired air traffic controller who has made Spokane his home for the past 65 years. He is celebrating his 90th birthday this month. “I am proud to take this action on behalf of Ray Daves, who represents the best of the Spokane community and America,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “By naming the Control Tower after Ray, we will remind all those who enter the Tower of this great American, plus all the sacrifices that were made by Ray and his generation.” "I would like to applaud Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers for her involvement in making the renaming of the Spokane Air Traffic Control Tower in Mr. Ray Daves' honor come to fruition,” said a spokesperson for the National Air Traffic Controllers Association. “This commendation will not only commemorate his life, but bring recognition to all sacrifices and accomplishments made by his generation, whose service to our country will not be forgotten. Thanks to Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers for her support of the service men and women who have, and continue to, defend our country." Ray Daves is a Pearl Harbor survivor, a Yorktown survivor, and a Purple Heart recipient. He currently volunteers his time to educate others about the Honor Flight program so all veterans may get a chance to visit the World War II Memorial built in their honor.
06.25.2010	Washington, DC – The U.S. House today passed a resolution (H. Con. Res. 285) introduced by Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) establishing 2010 as “The Year of the Father” and recognizing the important role that fathers play in the lives of their children and families. “This resolution is a way to show my appreciation for all fathers,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Spokane’s tradition of being first community to establish Father’s Day is just one more reason we can be proud of Eastern Washington.” On June 20, 2010, families in Eastern Washington and throughout America celebrated the 100th anniversary of Father’s Day – a national holiday which was started in Spokane by a local woman, Ms. Sonora Smart Dodd. After attending a Mother’s Day celebration in 1909, Ms. Dodd wanted to find a way to honor fathers. Ms. Dodd praised her dad, a Civil War veteran, who raised six children on his own after the death of his wife. The next year, Spokane hosted the first Father’s Day celebration at the YMCA. Research has consistently shown that the presence of a father is one of the most important factors in the health and well-being of a child. As advisors and role models, fathers help their children understand the difference between right and wrong and help them set goals for their future. "All the fathers who have taken the time to be with their children deserve to be honored for the critical role they’re playing,” Rep. McMorris Rodgers said. “I think I can speak for mothers everywhere in thanking them.” The Senate version of the Resolution – introduced by Sen. Patty Murray (D-WA) – is expected to be voted on soon. To watch the Congresswoman’s floor speech, please the image above. The text of the resolution is below. H. Con. Res. 285 In the House of Representatives, U.S. June 24, 2010 Resolution Recognizing the important role that fathers play in the lives of their children and families and establishing 2010 as The Year of the Father Whereas, Father’s Day was founded in 1910 by Mrs. John B. Dodd after attending a Mother’s Day celebration in1909 and believing that fathers should receive the same recognition Whereas Mrs. John B. Dodd, Sonora Smart Dodd, founded the day in celebration of her father, William Smart; Whereas William Smart, a Civil War veteran, raised six children on his own after the death of his wife; Whereas Spokane, Washington recognized and hosted the first celebration of Father’s Day on June 19, 1910 Whereas in 1924, President Calvin Coolidge recognized Father’s Day and urged states to follow suit; Whereas in 1966, President Lyndon B. Johnson signed a proclamation calling for the third Sunday in June to be recognized as Father’s Day and requested that flags be flown that day on all government buildings; Whereas President Richard Nixon signed a proclamation in 1972 permanently observing Father’s Day on the third Sunday in June; Whereas Father’s Day is celebrated in over 50 countries around the world; Whereas there are an estimated 64.3 million fathers around the nation today; Whereas it is well documented that children involved with loving fathers are significantly more likely to have healthy self-esteems, exhibit empathy and pro-social behavior, avoid high risk behaviors, reduce anti-social behavior and delinquency in boys, have better peer relationships, and have higher occupational mobility relative to parents; Whereas fathers who live with their children are likely to have a close, enduring relationship with their children than those who do not; Whereas the 100th anniversary of Father’s Day will be celebrated in Spokane, Washington on June 20, 2010; Be it resolved that Congress recognizes the important role that fathers play in the lives of their children and families and establishes The Year of the Father.
06.22.2010	“President is Doubling Down on the Path to Bankruptcy” Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, announced today that she was circulating a letter to Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner expressing her strong opposition to the Obama Administration’s decision to use the G-20 economic summit as a platform for supporting more government spending by the United States and our European allies – at a time when a consensus is belatedly emerging that the global debt crisis can only be resolved through fiscal austerity measures. “I have deep, grave concerns about the President’s handling of the global economy,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Last month, President Obama worked behind the scenes to craft a $900 billion bailout of the European Union – a bailout which will cost U.S. taxpayers between $50-100 billion. Even supporters of the bailout – such as German Chancellor Angela Merkel – acknowledged that the bailout would only ‘buy time’ to get European governments off their spend-and-borrow addiction. Now, incredibly, the Obama Administration – standing alone, against our European allies – is working to facilitate that addiction by vocally opposing much-needed austerity measures. While Europe – to its credit – may be learning its lesson, the President is doubling down on the path to bankruptcy.” According to today’s Wall Street Journal, “At the G-20 Summit in Toronto, the U.S. is expected to emphasize the need to keep government spending to boost economic recovery…The U.S. plans to press its economic partners to move cautiously with plans to tighten their fiscal policies.” In her letter to Secretary Geithner, Rep. McMorris Rodgers wrote, “We are disturbed to know that despite Europe’s growing debt crisis the United States continues to push policies in the international community that promote unsustainable global government borrowing and spending… Despite the Administration’s efforts to spend the nation back into growth and prosperity, we now face record annual deficits, a record debt level of more than $13 trillion, and an unemployment rate that hovers just below 10%…Debt problems cannot be solved with more debt. Just look at Greece.” Rep. McMorris Rodgers is one of the few Members of Congress who oppose using U.S. tax dollars for a European bailout. On March 24, 2010, BigGovernment.com published the Congresswoman’s article, Beware of Greeks Bearing Bailout Plans. This made Rep. McMorris Rodgers the first Member of Congress to publicly oppose U.S. taxpayer dollars for a European bailout. On May 18, Rep. McMorris Rodgers and Rep. Mike Pence (R-IN) introduced a Congressional Resolution, H. Con. Res. 279, opposing U.S. participation in the European bailout. A copy of the Congresswoman’s letter to Secretary Geithner is below. The Honorable Timothy F. GeithnerSecretaryUnited States Department of the TreasuryWashington, D.C. Dear Secretary Geithner: We write in anticipation of the G-20 meeting to be held this coming weekend in Toronto, Canada and to express our concern with the reported policies advocated by the United States to address the global financial crisis. In particular, we are disturbed to know that despite Europe’s growing debt crisis the United States continues to push policies in the international community that promote unsustainable global government borrowing and spending. The United States’ position is particularly disturbing given the evidence that suggests these stimulus policies will put an even larger number of European nations, and the world, in financial peril. We need not look any farther than Greece to understand the implications of runaway spending and mounting deficits and debt. Indeed, the October 2009 IMF Financial Stability Report demonstrates the impact that additional spending will have on the global economy. This report reveals that global borrowing will total $3.9 trillion in 2010, with global debt reaching 137 percent of gross domestic product. The same report shows that global borrowing averaged less than a trillion dollars cumulatively between the years 2002 and 2008. As most world leaders now recognize, implementing excessive borrowing and spending policies will put nations on the brink of a debt crisis. To quote German Chancellor Merkel in Seoul, Korea “growth cannot come at the price of high state budget deficits.” It is important to note that the recent elections in Great Britain was as much about excessive spending as any other issue — demonstrating that sovereign debt and default is top of mind of individuals and leaders world-wide. Moreover, it is clear in this country that excessive government spending policies have not worked. Despite the Administration’s efforts to spend the nation back into growth and prosperity, we now face record annual deficits, a record debt level of more than $13 trillion, and an unemployment rate that hovers just below 10 percent. In fact, 2009, the annual deficit was approximately 42 percent of all revenues and our external debt of $14 trillion was almost equal to gross domestic product. Debt problems cannot be solved with more debt. Just look at Greece. We urge you to reconsider the Administration’s borrowing and spending policies both here and abroad, particularly at a time when fiscal restraint is necessary for the future viability of the United States and the world. Other nations are recognizing the need to reign in spending. So, should we. We look forward to hearing your response. ****
06.22.2010	Washington, D.C. – Recognizing the importance of federal payments to rural counties in Eastern Washington, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) signed onto a bipartisan letter to Secretary of the Interior Ken Salazar today urging the Obama Administration to abandon its plans to delay sending $381 million of Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT) money until July and torelease the funds before the end of this month. “This delay is both unexpected and unacceptable” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Because most county budgets rely on PILT funds to operate, they cannot wait until July 15 for payment by the federal government without serious financial implications. I am working with my colleagues to address this situation and make sure these payments are delivered in an effective and timely manner.” Since the program’s inception in 1977, PILT has paid counties for the loss of tax revenue as a result of land ownership. The payments are usually made no later than June 30 – in time for the commencement of the fiscal year. In their letter to Secretary Salazar, Rep. McMorris Rodgers, 19 other House members, and 14 U.S. Senators urged the Secretary to address the reality that many of their states’ counties will not be able to function without sufficient government funding by June 30. They urged the Administration to distribute the funds by their previously scheduled release date so county governments can “keep their doors open.” The full text of the letter is below. The Honorable Ken Salazar Secretary Department of Interior 1849 C St., NW Washington, DC 20240 Dear Secretary Salazar: As you know, many rural counties in the West are dependent on the funding that comes from the Department of the Interior due to the loss of potential tax revenues on federal lands, known as Payment in Lieu of Taxes (PILT). Nearly $381 million was distributed to counties across the nation in FY2009. This money is critical to keeping county government functioning. Many of these counties have obligations that must be met by June 30 and these cannot be modified. That’s why we are concerned by your department’s announcement that it will be releasing PILT funds a month later than anticipated. County governments, already facing a dismal economic situation, cannot wait an extra month for these funds, or simply suspend their operations for a month. They need these funds now, simply to keep their doors open. We urge you to issue these funds at their previously scheduled release date. While we understand that the PILT formula is complicated, it is critical for rural governments that the Department of Interior expedites the release of these funds as quickly as possible. If the Department can only estimate payments at this time because of difficulties in determining the final payment amount, we urge you to consider providing estimated payments that can be adjusted later so that our rural counties are not left stranded while this is resolved. At a minimum, the Department should determine if there is any intermediate solution to this issue so that a payment can go out to counties this month. Additionally, we encourage your department to provide appropriate outreach to the communities depending on these funds. Thank you for your understanding of the importance of this request. We look forward to your prompt attention to this matter. ***
06.21.2010	Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) released the following statement as Spokane celebrates the 100th anniversary of Father’s Day – a national holiday which was started in Spokane by a local woman, Sonora Smart Dodd, exactly 100 years ago today. “As a resident of Spokane – and its representative in Congress – I’m very proud of our city’s achievement as the first city to honor its wonderful fathers who – like my own dad – contribute so much to our families and our community.” Father’s Day was founded in Spokane on June 20, 1910 by Ms. Dodd. After attending a Mother’s Day celebration in 1909, Ms. Dodd wanted to find a way to honor fathers. Ms. Dodd praised her dad, a Civil War veteran, who raised six children on his own after the death of his wife. The next year, Spokane hosted the first celebration of Father’s Day at the YMCA. Ms. Dodd’s idea would eventually lead to an annual day of celebration for all of America’s fathers. On June 9, 2010, Rep. McMorris Rodgers introduced a Congressional Resolution (H. Con. Res. 285) establishing 2010 as “The Year of the Father” and recognizing the important role that fathers play in the lives of their children and families. “This resolution is a way to show my appreciation for all fathers,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Spokane’s tradition of being first community to establish Father’s Day is just one more reason we can be proud of Eastern Washington.” Research has consistently shown that the presence of a father is one of the most important factors in the health and well-being of a child. As advisors and role models, fathers help their children understand the difference between right and wrong and help them set goals for their future. The Congresswoman’s Resolution is co-sponsored by Rep. Rick Larsen (WA-02), Rep. Doc Hastings (WA-04), Rep. Dave Reichert (WA-08), and Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09). On June 16, 2010, Sen. Patty Murray (D-WA) and Sen. Maria Cantwell (D-WA) introduced a companion resolution in the U.S. Senate. The full text of the resolution is below. H. Con. Res. 285 In the House of Representatives, U.S. Resolution Recognizing the important role that fathers play in the lives of their children and families and establishing 2010 as The Year of the Father Whereas, Father’s Day was founded in 1910 by Mrs. John B. Dodd after attending a Mother’s Day celebration in1909 and believing that fathers should receive the same recognition Whereas Mrs. John B. Dodd, Sonora Smart Dodd, founded the day in celebration of her father, William Smart; Whereas William Smart, a Civil War veteran, raised six children on his own after the death of his wife; Whereas Spokane, Washington recognized and hosted the first celebration of Father’s Day on June 19, 1910 Whereas in 1924, President Calvin Coolidge recognized Father’s Day and urged states to follow suit; Whereas in 1966, President Lyndon B. Johnson signed a proclamation calling for the third Sunday in June to be recognized as Father’s Day and requested that flags be flown that day on all government buildings; Whereas President Richard Nixon signed a proclamation in 1972 permanently observing Father’s Day on the third Sunday in June; Whereas Father’s Day is celebrated in over 50 countries around the world; Whereas there are an estimated 64.3 million fathers around the nation today; Whereas it is well documented that children involved with loving fathers are significantly more likely to have healthy self-esteems, exhibit empathy and pro-social behavior, avoid high risk behaviors, reduce anti-social behavior and delinquency in boys, have better peer relationships, and have higher occupational mobility relative to parents; Whereas fathers who live with their children are likely to have a close, enduring relationship with their children than those who do not; Whereas the 100th anniversary of Father’s Day will be celebrated in Spokane, Washington on June 20, 2010; Be it resolved that Congress recognizes the important role that fathers play in the lives of their children and families and establishes The Year of the Father.
06.17.2010	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA), Co-Chairs of the Military Family Caucus, held a Caucus briefing today to discuss a groundbreaking study by the RAND Corporation examining the impact of deployment on military families. The RAND study contained detailed legislative recommendations for supporting military families before, during and after deployments. “I recognize that when a service member joins the military, it’s not just a job, it’s a family commitment to our country,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Research shows that although military families are strong, deployments challenge their health and stability. I’m confident that today’s briefing focusing on the RAND study will help Congress and the Pentagon address the growing and changing needs of America’s military families.” Some of the ideas presented in the RAND study include scholarships in mental health professions for military spouses, more support activities for military teens, and streamlined access to care and support. A copy of the RAND study can be found here.
06.17.2010	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) released the following statement today after the Congressionally-chartered Sustainable Defense Task Force recommended delaying the KC-X tanker for five years. “Right now, the men and women at Fairchild Air Force Base are flying air refueling tankers that are more than 50 years old. That is not consistent with our goal of having a modern Air Force using state-of-the-art technology. For the sake of our national security, we need to move forward with the acquisition process for the KC-X Tanker – a process which has already been drawn out too long and cost taxpayers too much money.” The Sustainable Defense Tank Force is a fourteen-member panel led by Rep. Barney Frank (D-MA), Chairman of the House Financial Services Committee, charged with making recommendations on military spending. Since coming to Congress in 2005, Rep. McMorris Rodgers has been a strong advocate for Fairchild Air Force Base, the largest employer in Eastern Washington. The current KC-X Tanker competition process started in 2006 and the Congresswoman continues to ensure it remains a top priority for the Air Force. On April 29, 2010, Rep. McMorris Rodgers led a delegation of Spokane leaders to the Pentagon to meet with Secretary of the Air Force Michael Donley and other high-ranking military officials to discuss the KC-X Tanker and efforts to bolster Fairchild AFB.
06.07.2010	“Obama Administration Needs to Stand Up for U.S. Taxpayers” Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, called a statement by one of the leaders of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) suggesting that American taxpayers would be forced to spend $100 billion to help bailout Europe “extremely troubling.” On Friday, June 4, the chairman of the IMF’s policy committee, Youssef Boutros-Ghali, said the IMF’s financial reserves would have to rise “very significantly” in the wake of the IMF’s $335 billion commitment to bailout Greece and the European Union. "If we are going to start including funds made available to Europe, then the IMF is not properly resourced," said Mr. Boutros-Ghali, while adding that IMF members were talking of doubling the amount of Special Drawing Rights (SDRs). In 2009, the IMF increased its SDR allocation from $34 billion to $318 billion. To help facilitate this process, the U.S. Congress – over the objection of most House Republicans – increased America’s commitment to the IMF by $100 billion. If the SDR allocation needs to be doubled – as Mr. Boutros-Ghali claims – that would mean U.S. taxpayers would probably be on the hook for an additional $100 billion, if not more. “This should give pause to Treasury Secretary Geithner and others who boasted that the IMF’s bailout bonanza wouldn’t cost U.S. taxpayers a dime,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “In truth, the cost to U.S. taxpayers goes up every few weeks. After the Greek bailout, it stood at about $7 billion; after the EU bailout, it stood at about $60 billion. Now – based on Mr. Boutros-Ghali’s comments – we’re talking at possibly $100 billion or more. This has got to stop.” Growing concerns about U.S. involvement in the European debt crisis have sent stocks sharply lower and raised fears of a double-dip recession. After the $900 billion EU bailout was announced on the evening of May 9, the Dow Jones rose to 10,880.14 in the first hour of trading the next day. But since then, growing doubts about the wisdom of the bailout have rattled financial markets. At the close of trading on June 4, the Dow stood at 9,931.97. May 2010 was the worst May for the Dow Jones since 1940. On May 18, Rep. McMorris Rodgers and Rep. Mike Pence (R-IN) introduced a Congressional Resolution, H. Con. Res. 279, opposing U.S. participation in the European bailouts. “Every Member of Congress should go on record – either ‘yay’ or ‘nay’ – on whether or not U.S. tax dollars should go to a Euro-TARP,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Should Congress approve our resolution, it will send a powerful signal to the Obama Administration that we cannot take this ‘too big to fail’ philosophy to a global level. The only thing ‘too big to fail’ is America itself.”
06.07.2010	Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) successfully concluded her fourth annual Veterans and Military Family Resource Fair in Spokane today. The purpose of the fair – which included a town hall with the Congresswoman – was to make sure Eastern Washington’s veterans, service members, and military families know about the programs, benefits, jobs, services, and resources available to them. “America is the ‘Land of the Free’ because we truly are the ‘Home of the Brave,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “And your bravery and sacrifice will not be forgotten. As your Representative, I remain committed to making sure you receive the services, care, and benefits that you’ve earned. As a grateful nation, America can do no less.” As a member of the House Armed Service Committee, Rep. McMorris Rodgers is the chief advocate of Fairchild Air Force Base in the U.S. Congress. On Friday, she spoke at the groundbreaking of a new fitness center at Fairchild. As the Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus, Rep. McMorris Rodgers secured several key provisions of the National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) which will benefit military families, including those with special needs. The NDAA passed the U.S. House last week. On May 28, Rep. McMorris Rodgers introduced The Service Members Permanent Change of Station Relief Act. This bill would increase the mileage reimbursement rate for members of the Armed Forces during a permanent change of station. By changing the terminology from “moving expense” to “business expense,” the reimbursement rate for military families in that situation would rise from 16 and a half cents per mile to 50 cents per mile. “As the wife of a career Navy man, I understand the nature of your family commitment and the drawbacks that can come with it,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers at today’s fair. “America’s military families have needs that are not being met, but with the ideas and opinions you’ve given me today, I can better understand those needs and begin to address them.”
06.07.2010	Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) spoke at the groundbreaking of a new physical fitness center at Fairchild Air Force Base today. The $18.8 million state-of-the-art fitness center will support a Fairchild population of 9,700 military/civilian/dependent personnel plus 16,900 retirees in the Spokane area. “When we talk about ‘military resources,’ that includes physical fitness,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “And for too long, Fairchild’s Fitness Center – badly damages by a snow storm – didn’t meet the high standards that our fighting men and women deserve. With today’s groundbreaking, we are on the cusp of a new, state-of-the-art fitness center that will support the Fairchild population in their Air Force Mission: ‘Fly: Fight, and Win.’” As a member of the House Armed Services Committee and Co-Chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus, Rep. McMorris Rodgers has served as Fairchild’s chief advocate and defender in the U.S. Congress. She has worked for years to secure funding for a new fitness center at Fairchild. The build-design contract was awarded to a local company, Lydig Construction, which will team with ALSC Architects – another Spokane-based company.
06.07.2010	“We Need to Reduce Our Spending and Borrowing. No More Excuses.” Washington, D.C. – Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today after the Treasury Department reported that America’s national debt had surpassed $13 trillion – an all-time record. “The federal government is broke, and the time has come for tough choices. We can no longer assume that government spending and borrowing are problems that will take care of themselves. The budget situation has changed, and Congress must change with it. A good first step would be for the Majority to put forward a budget. We can no longer afford to bring excessive spending bills to the floor without further damage to our children and grandchildren.” Since President Obama took office, the national debt has soared by $2.4 trillion, and the debt continues to grow at a rate of $4.9 billion per day. That’s almost three times the daily average of $1.7 billion under the previous administration. And according to President Obama’s own budget forecast, the federal government will add $9.8 trillion to the national debt over the next ten years. Instead of dealing with this urgent problem, the Majority in Congress has taken the unprecedented action of refusing to pass a budget this year. Majority Leader Steny Hoyer once called budgeting “the most basic responsibility of governing.” In 2006, Budget Committee Chairman John Spratt said, “If you can’t budget, you can’t govern.” There is not expected to be a budget for Fiscal Year 2011. “At a time when American families are reexamining their budget to cut spending and borrowing, it’s unacceptable that Congress refuses to do the same,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Instead, Congress is adding to their debt burden – a burden that with yesterday’s milestone of $13 trillion, comes to $42,000 per person.”
06.07.2010	Elli Rassbach from Walla Walla Receives Top Prize Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) announced the winner of the first annual Girls Rock the House competition at an event in Walla Walla, Washington today. Elli Rassbach, an eighth grade student from Walla Walla, received the top prize. Girls Rock the House is a national initiative for eighth grade girls in political districts represented by women of the House of Representatives. Led by an instructor, each group engages in a six-week, hands-on program that culminates in a national bill-writing contest. Each girl crafts and submits a bill to a local, impartial panel. Group winners then proceed to a district competition. District winners (and their guardians) from across the country then convene in Washington, D.C. for a two-and-a-half-day program. “At a time when only 17 percent of the Members of Congress are women, we need to be doing a better job of encouraging young women to become involved in public service,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “That’s why I’m a strong supporter of the Girls Rocks the House program. I am very proud of this year’s winner – Elli Rassbach. She is well-deserving of this honor, and I look forward to meeting her again in Washington, D.C.” "I am very excited my bill won,” said Ms. Rassbach. “I appreciate Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers taking the time to become involved in Girls Rock the House. I hope this inspires other girls like it inspired me to become more interested in politics."
06.07.2010	Congratulates Graduating Class of 2010 and Imparts Life Lessons Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) delivered the Walla Walla High School Baccalaureate on Whitman College Campus tonight. “For the graduating members of the Class of 2010, let me tell you that your true test is ahead of you,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “That test is the ‘journey of life.’ Thankfully, the things you learned and achieved at Walla Walla High School – in the classroom, on the soccer field, behind the debate podium, in the art studio, and on the stage – have given you the skills you need to master the ‘journey.’” “Personally, I’ve found that the most unexpected things in my life have often been the most beautiful and most rewarding. Take it from me, life has a way of taking you in directions you never thought possible. So seize those possibilities; embrace them. Whatever field God is leading you to, be available. Don’t doubt yourself. And no matter how hard life gets, don’t ever lose faith.” “As you begin the next chapter of your life, remember that God needs leaders who are guided by good, strong values. No matter what road you choose to follow, please be active in the stewardship of your nation – ‘the last, best hope on Earth.’ President Eisenhower once said, ‘Politics should be the full-time career of no one; and the part-time career of everyone.’ To the Graduating Class of 2010: I encourage you to rise to this challenge.”
06.07.2010	Proud to Help Honor America’s Heroes on Memorial Day Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) spoke at the dedication of the first State Veterans Cemetery in Medical Lake, Washington today. Rep. McMorris Rodgers joined other Washington State leaders, including Gov. Christine Gregoire and Col. Robert Thomas of Fairchild Air Force Base, to help honor America’s veterans, servicemembers, and their families. “This cemetery is more than just a burial place for those who have fought to free the world of tyranny and terrorism and violence,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “It will be a place where patriotism rests, where bravery is buried, where freedom is remembered. It will serve as a reminder that we must honor our servicemen and women as proudly in death as we do in life.” Starting in 2006, Rep. McMorris Rodgers worked with local veterans to secure the necessary funding for Washington’s first-ever state cemetery. In 2009, the Department of Veterans Affairs awarded an $8.8 million grant to complete the cemetery. “I am pleased that this grant will ensure that our community’s heroes remain with their families – not only in life – but for eternity,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. Last year, Rep. McMorris Rodgers spoke at the cemetery’s groundbreaking. The cemetery’s headstones will mark the names of over 90,000 veterans and their families – and over 140,000 retired veterans in Washington State are eligible to be buried here. “From this day forward, let us never forget those Washington heroes who inspire us and fight for us across the world,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers at today’s dedication. “We owe you our freedom. And you have our eternal gratitude.”
06.04.2010	“Israel Has Right to Defend Herself” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today after a second “humanitarian” flotilla aimed to circumvent Israel’s naval blockade and reach the Gaza Strip. “I strongly support Israel’s right to defend herself against Hamas and other terrorist groups. Israel’s blockade of Gaza is a necessary measure to prevent Hamas from stockpiling weapons, including rockets that have been used to kill innocent Israeli civilians. Their blockade does not interfere with the flow of humanitarian aid. In fact, Israel transfers over 10,000 tons of humanitarian supplies a week into Gaza, including food, clothing, and medicine.” “The purpose of these so-called ‘freedom flotillas’ is to provoke a confrontation with Israel. Unfortunately, that purpose was achieved with the first flotilla incident. News that a second flotilla is trying to break Israel’s blockade is disappointing. According to reports, Israel has already offered to direct the ship to an Israeli port, where the supplies would be unloaded, inspected and transferred to Gaza by land, but those offers were rejected. The reason for the rejection is obvious: The flotillas are designed to violate Israel’s sovereignty; not to provide aid to the needy. Israel has the right to board this ship and to maintain its blockade.”
05.26.2010	WASHINGTON, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, and other House Republican leaders unveiled a major new initiative, America Speaking Out, at a press conference today. America Speaking Out is an official effort of House Republicans to involve the American people in creating a new policy agenda for the 111th Congress. Using the best of social media, America Speaking Out enables citizens to submit a policy solution, promote their priorities, debate the ideas posted by other Americans, and share the conversation with your friends and neighbors via Facebook and Twitter. America Speaking Out will become the home to an unprecedented online conversation between Americans and those elected to represent them. As Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, Rep. McMorris Rodgers is tasked by her colleagues to lead their New Media outreach. She will be playing a major role in promoting America Speaking Out and maximizing its effectiveness. “All across America, New Media technologies – such as websites, blogs, online videos, and social networking sites – have greatly improved communications in our personal and professional lives,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Now it’s time for New Media to have the same impact on America’s government. I believe that America Speaking Out will be a revolution in the use of New Media to engage our constituents and build a positive agenda for America’s future.” For more information on America Speaking Out, please click HERE. Rep. McMorris Rodgers has op-eds in today’s Pajamas Media and Net Right Daily.
05.20.2010	Washington, DC – Eastern Washington troops, military spouses, and military families with special needs will benefit from legislation the House Armed Services Committee (HASC) passed today. The 2011 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA) authorizes funding for the Department of Defense (DOD) for Fiscal Year 2011. Committee member Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers successfully pushed key provisions in the bill that: Studies the progress of the Office of Community Support for Military Families with Special Needs. Rep. McMorris Rodgers’ amendment directs the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to study the progress of the Office of Community Support for Military Families with Special Needs. In last year’s 2010 NDAA, Congress asked the Secretary of Defense to create a new office to better support military families with special needs. “DOD reveals that not much has been done because they need more money, but we all know that they can find a way to make this a priority,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “This Committee has the responsibility to ensure that service members and their families receive the support and service they deserve.” Directs GAO to evaluate what each military service is doing to help the Exceptional Family Member Program (EFMP): This study would look at all aspects and implementation of the EFMP programs, policies, strategic planning, and best practices and make recommendations to improve and standardize the progress across all services. “All too often, I hear from military families who have children with special needs. They say the type of support you receive depends on the service you are in,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “This should not be the norm; the EFMP program should be standardized across the board and applicable to all services.” Directs DOD to provide a report back to Congress offering insight on how the Center of Excellence for Psychological Health and Traumatic Brain Injury is using virtual technology to reach out to service members and their families. “Last year, we inserted report language that asked DOD to evaluate the potential use of virtual agents to help disseminate health-related information to service members,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “We know that individuals are simply more comfortable asking difficult questions of a virtual agent because it is anonymous and the virtual agent is never judgmental. And I think it is important for this Committee to know exactly what DOD is doing to utilize this technology.” Expresses support for the concept that local schools should recognize and adhere to one Individualized Education Plan (IEP) for military families with special needs as they move from one base to another. “I know firsthand that an IEP process can be daunting, and if a new IEP is needed every military move, families can become especially frustrated and discouraged with the process,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “This amendment supports the concept that military families should have a sense of security in one IEP that works best for their child.” The 2011 NDAA includes a 1.9 percent pay raise for service members, which is above the Obama Administration’s request of 1.4 percent. To watch the Congresswoman’s opening statement at today’s HASC mark-up, please click on the image below. ###
05.20.2010	Washington, D.C. – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and Rep. Rob Bishop (R-UT) introduced legislation today that would prevent federal agencies from using the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) as a tool to fight climate change. The Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) recently proposed guidance advising federal agencies to consider and evaluate climate change and greenhouse gas emissions during the NEPA process. This is alarming to farmers, ranchers and small businessmen in Eastern Washington who have already seen how federal agencies abuse NEPA by forcing them to spend valuable time and resources defending against junk lawsuits. “Having NEPA force agencies and companies to consider the impact of an action on climate change could add a disastrous new layer of bureaucracy and slow economic development in the West,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “The result will be longer permitting lines, higher project costs, and more litigation. At a time when jobs are scarce and the economy IS vulnerable, we should be deconstructing economic barriers – not creating new ones.” The legislation is patterned after a Senate bill introduced by Senators John Barrasso (R-WY) and James Inhofe (R-OK). ###
05.18.2010	“Congress Should Have an Up-or-Down Vote on U.S. Participation in $321 Billion IMF Deal Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, and Rep. Mike Pence (R-IN), the Conference Chairman, introduced a Congressional resolution today to stop U.S. tax dollars from being used by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) for bailouts of European countries. On May 9, 2010, the IMF unveiled a proposal to spend $321 billion to help bailout debt-ridden European countries such as Greece, Portugal, and Spain. The United States is the largest contributor to the IMF, and therefore, under this plan, at least $50 billion of U.S. taxpayer money would be funneled to Europe to help prop up failed socialist policies. “President Obama supports the European bailout, although the public is strongly against it,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Unfortunately, Congress’ means to stop the President are limited because last year Congress passed legislation which increased America’s quota contribution and line of credit to the IMF by $100 billion without any safeguards to ensure that taxpayers would be protected from unnecessary bailouts. Even so, Congress still has the right to express its opinion on this vital matter which affects America’s economic freedom, fiscal integrity, and national sovereignty. That’s why I’ve introduced this resolution. The U.S. House should have an up-or-down vote. Every Member of Congress should go on record – either ‘yea’ or ‘nay’ – on whether or not U.S. tax dollars should go to a ‘Euro-TARP.’ We owe it to the American people to have this vote.” The U.S. share of the European bailout is expected to come from the IMF’s pool of reserves, which the U.S. supplemented with $100 billion in the FY 2009 War Funding Supplemental bill. The legislation was ultimately opposed by Rep. McMorris Rodgers and 201 other Members of the House, in part because of fears that taxpayer dollars would be used to finance an international bailout slush fund. The IMF is turning those fears into reality. The IMF’s $321 billion bailout is not a fait accompli, however. Even at this late hour, the Obama Administration has considerable power to stop the deal. The IMF is expected to schedule a meeting to give final approval to the European bailout package. While the IMF does not expect that a formal Executive Board vote will be held, the U.S. has the power to call a vote. Rep. McMorris Rodgers has called on the Obama Administration to vote “no” on a European bailout until all EU nations are in compliance with the debt to GDP ratio requirement in their own collective growth pact. If a majority of the IMF Executive Board votes against the bailout, the agreement is defeated. “Should Congress approve our resolution, it will send a powerful message to President Obama that America has ‘bailout burnout,’” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “We cannot afford to take the ‘too big to fail’ philosophy to a global level. “The only thing ‘too big to fail’ is America itself.” On May 13, 2010, Rep. McMorris Rodgers, Rep. Pence, Rep. Jerry Lewis (R-CA), Rep. Jeb Hensarling (R-TX), and Rep. Kay Granger (R-TX) introduced legislation to stop U.S. tax dollars from being used by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) for bailouts for European countries. Their bill, The European Bailout Protection Act, will protect U.S. taxpayers from becoming more involved in a ‘Euro-TARP’ by requiring the EU nations to meet the fiscal requirements mandated by their own charter before they can withdraw U.S.-provided funds from the IMF. The text of the McMorris Rodgers-Pence resolution, H. Con. Res. 279, is below. CONCURRENT RESOLUTION Disapproving of the participation of the United States in the provision by the International Monetary Fund of a multibillion dollar funding package for the European Union, until the member states of the European Union comply with the economic requirements of membership in the European Union. Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring), That the Congress disapproves of the participation of the United States in the provision by the International Monetary Fund of a multibillion dollar funding package to the European Union, until each member state of the European Union demonstrate compliance with the economic requirements of membership in the European Union, including limiting the deficit of the member state to 3 percent of the gross domestic product of the member state and limiting the total public debt of the member state to 60 percent of the gross domestic product of the member state.
05.18.2010	(Washington, D.C.) – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA), Co-Chairs of the Military Family Caucus, hosted the inaugural Military Spouse Summit today. The Summit brought together military spouses from all branches of the U.S. military and all from parts of the nation to offer their recommendations about the most pressing issues they and their families face. “I recognize that when a service member joins the military, it is not just a job; it is a family commitment to our country,” said Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers. Some of the ideas presented at the Summit include expanding the Military Spouse Career Advancement Program (MyCAA) to all military spouses, improving education for military children, and providing enough coverage for military children with special needs to receive all the treatments they need. “As the wife of a career Navy man, I understand the nature of your family commitment and the drawbacks that can come with it. America’s military families have needs that are not being met, but with your contributions here today, we can better understand those needs and begin to address them.” To watch the Congresswoman’s remarks at the Summit, please click here. ###
05.18.2010	Pastor Goble is a Pillar of the Eastern Washington Community Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) introduced her pastor, Pastor Tim Goble of Grace Evangelical Free Church in Colville, Washington as part of his opening prayer for today’s session of Congress. “Pastor Tim is a friend of mine and a source of great inspiration to me and my family,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “I was proud to invite Pastor Tim to Capitol Hill because he is a pillar of the Eastern Washington community and a genuine role model for all.” A pair of high-resolution photos of Rep. McMorris Rodgers with Pastor Goble are available upon request. Below is an unofficial transcript of the Congresswoman’s introduction of Pastor Goble and Pastor Goble’s prayer. An official transcript will be released by the Congressional Record tomorrow. The introduction took place after the prayer. Reverend Dr. Timothy Goble, Grace Evangelical Free Church, Colville, Washington: Most gracious Lord God, we are continually encouraged as we sense Your guardianship as You powerfully determine the destiny of this Republic. We acknowledge that the future of all of our political institutions are staked upon the capacity of each of us here to govern, control, and to sustain ourselves in accordance with the Word of God. Today, we acknowledge our departure from your Word and ask for Your forgiveness. May Your Word once again become the guiding light for our homes, our schools, our courtrooms, and workplaces. Lay upon the hearts of all those who serve in this great historical room the need to establish a personal relationship with You that will grow them into servant leaders, who make their constituents the beneficiary of every decision from Your divine perspective. May they walk humbly with each other, acknowledging their mutual duty of loving forbearance. All this we ask in the name of Jesus. Amen. Mrs. McMorris Rodgers: Mr. Speaker, it is my great honor and pleasure to welcome Pastor Tim Goble, who gave the opening prayer to Congress this morning. He’s the Pastor of Grace Evangelical Free Church in Colville, Washington, where he and his family have been faithfully serving our Lord in ministry to the people of that area for the past 23 years. He’s been my pastor. Over the years, I’ve become friends with his wife, Jane, and their three sons, Nathan, Stephen, and Daniel. His first job after seminary was serving as a youth minister in northern Indiana from 1976 to 1986. He then moved across the country to Washington State in 1987, to become pastor of a new church plant of 35 people. Since then, the church has grown steadily, making a tremendous difference in the lives of all those who have walked through its doors, including me and my family. I admire Pastor Tim and his family and appreciate their leadership, service, commitment to our community, and their example to all of us. Thank you for coming to the United States Congress to lead us in prayer today. ###
05.18.2010	“Obama Administration Should Take Action to Protect U.S. Tax Dollars” Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference and Rep. Mike Pence (R-IN), the Conference Chairman, urged their House colleagues today to sign a letter to U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner, calling on the Obama Administration to block any American taxpayer-funded bailouts of Greece. Greece is seeking funding from the International Monetary Fund (IMF), due to the country’s debt, and other European countries, including Portugal and Spain, may soon make similar appeals. “At a time when America is experiencing its worst economy in 30 years and is burdened by a $1.4 trillion deficit, it is simply unfair—as a matter of principle—to force American taxpayers to use their hard-earned money to prop up failed policies in relatively wealthy nations,” said Reps. McMorris Rodgers and Pence in their letter. The IMF is expected to provide billions to supplement European Union funds in order to bail out Greece from its ongoing debt crisis and irresponsible spending. The funding is expected to come from IMF’s pool of New Arrangements to Borrow (NAB), which the U.S. supplemented with $100 billion in the FY 2009 War Funding Supplemental bill. The legislation was ultimately opposed by Rep. McMorris Rodgers and 201 other Members of the House, in part because of fears that taxpayer dollars would be used to finance an international bailout slush fund. It now appears that the IMF is on the verge of turning those fears into reality. “The Obama Administration needs to understand that bailing out Greece will not solve Greece’s problems; it will only create a moral hazard that gets America more involved in the gathering storm of European bailouts,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “A Greek bailout today will encourage larger countries, such as Spain and Italy – which have similar problems – to get in line for American tax dollars tomorrow and continually delay the fiscal reforms that are necessary for a long-term recovery.” On March 24, 2010, BigGovernment.com published the Congresswoman’s article, Beware of Greeks Bearing Bailout Plans. This made Rep. McMorris Rodgers the first Member of Congress to publicly oppose U.S. taxpayer dollars for a European bailout. A copy of the letter from Chairman Pence and Vice Chair McMorris Rodgers is below. April 29, 2010 The Honorable Timothy F. Geithner United States Secretary of the Treasury Department of the Treasury 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW Washington, D.C. 20220 Dear Secretary Geithner: The American people are tired of the bailouts. After hundreds of billions of dollars in bailouts for financial firms, Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, and car manufacturers, the American taxpayer is being asked to start down a road that could lead to tens of billions in new bailouts for foreign countries. According to reports, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) is expected to provide billions to supplement European Union funds in order to bail out Greece from its ongoing debt crisis and irresponsible spending. The funding is expected to come from IMF’s pool of New Arrangements to Borrow (NAB), which the U.S. supplemented with $100 billion in the FY 2009 War Funding Supplemental bill. The legislation was ultimately opposed by 202 Members of the House of Representatives, in part because of fears that taxpayer dollars would be used to finance an international bailout slush fund. It now appears that the IMF is on the verge of turning those fears into reality. It is unlikely that Greece will be the last major European Union member nation to seek IMF assistance in the near future. Worries about the impending debt emergencies in not only Greece, but Portugal, Ireland, Italy, and Spain have bogged down European markets. Now larger European Union economies have pledged to come to the aid of Greece, setting a precedent for more rescues of other debt ridden countries. What are the criteria for determining whether the U.S. should be obligated to join in these bailout efforts? While it may be appropriate for the European Union to assist Greece, the U.S. is in the midst of its own debt crisis. The Congressional Budget Office now predicts that our nation’s debt held by the public will reach an astonishing 90 percent of Gross Domestic Product within ten years. By comparison, Greece’s current debt to GDP ratio of 112.5 percent has resulted in a lowering of their credit rating to junk status. Without dramatic spending restraint, the U.S. is on a path toward the same crisis. At a time when America is experiencing its worst economy in 30 years and is burdened by a $1.4 trillion deficit, it is simply unfair—as a matter of principle—to force American taxpayers to use their hard-earned money to prop up failed policies in relatively wealthy nations. We urge the Administration on an ongoing basis to use any existing authority to protect American taxpayers from billions more in bailouts. Propping up Greece and any other European Union nation that may face a similar crisis in the future should not be the responsibility of our taxpayers. ###
05.18.2010	“Taxpayers are Alarmed Over Where Obama Administration is Taking Us” Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement after the latest developments in the European economic crisis: “While the Obama Administration, the European Union, and the International Monetary Fund are eager to expedite a $145 billion bailout of Greece, the American people are raising questions about the cost and effectiveness of such a bailout, and they are growing increasingly alarmed about the prospect of spending tens of billions more as a part of a future European bailout.” The United States is the largest contributor of the IMF’s budget, and therefore – if the Greek bailout plan is passed – U.S. taxpayers will be required to funnel billions of dollars to Greece. “At a time when America is experiencing its worst economy in 30 years and is weighed down by a $1.4 trillion deficit, U.S. taxpayers should not be forced to prop up failed socialist policies in a relatively wealthy nation such as Greece,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Furthermore, we should not be creating a moral hazard in which larger European countries with similar problems – such as Spain, Portugal, and Italy – have a greater incentive to seek a bailout from America.” The Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 347.80 points today and is down almost 500 points in the four days since the Greek bailout plan was unveiled. Bond yields for Western Europe have grown considerably. The market downturn supports the argument of bailout opponents that investors don’t have confidence that the Greek bailout deal will work, while merely setting the stage for larger future bailouts of Spain, Portugal, and Italy. Last night, Rep. McMorris Rodgers and Rep. Mike Pence (R-IN), Chairman of the House Republican Conference, sent a letter to Vice President Biden calling on the Obama Administration to publicly oppose a potential bailout of Spain. The Vice President is in Madrid to meet with Spain's Prime Minister José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero on economic issues. “Should Spain request a bailout from the IMF, we urge you to make it clear that the U.S. will oppose such a bailout, and do all in its power as the IMF’s leading contributor to reject putting American money further at risk,” said Reps. McMorris Rodgers and Pence in their letter. “The U.S. did not implement the policies that have caused Spain’s debt issues, and the U.S. taxpayer should not be put at risk to bail them out.” On April 29, 2010, Reps. McMorris Rodgers and Pence announced they were circulating a letter to Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner calling upon the Obama Administration to oppose the $145 billion Greek bailout and any future European bailouts. “Even at this late hour, the Obama Administration has considerable power to stop the U.S. from going down this ruinous road,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers at Wednesday’s Republican Leadership press conference. “It is our understanding that under current IMF rules, the United States needs only one other IMF member to oppose the bailout to defeat it.” On March 24, 2010, BigGovernment.com published the Congresswoman’s article, Beware of Greeks Bearing Bailout Plans. This made Rep. McMorris Rodgers the first Member of Congress to publicly oppose U.S. taxpayer dollars for a European bailout. ###
05.18.2010	“America Cannot Afford to Fund a Global TARP” Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, announced her strong opposition to news reports that the International Monetary Fund would spend $321 billion to help bailout debt-ridden European countries such as Greece, Portugal, and Spain. The United States is the largest contributor to the IMF, and therefore, under this plan, tens of billions of U.S. tax dollars would be funneled to Europe to help prop up failed socialist policies. “At a time when America is experiencing its worst economy in 30 years and is weighed down by a $1.4 trillion deficit, U.S. taxpayers should not be forced to bailout Europe,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “In many ways, the countries which make up the European Union are comparable to the states within the U.S. The United States is not asking Europe to bailout California, New York, and New Jersey. Europe needs to make the tough choices that Governors and Mayors all across America are making right now. By aiding a European bailout, we are making it less likely that our friends in Europe will pass the fiscal reforms that are necessary for long-term growth.” “The Obama Administration should publicly oppose this ‘Global TARP’ and work with other members of the IMF to defeat it.” As the leading vote holder on the IMF, the U.S. wields the largest amount of say in determinations made by the IMF. While the U.S. cannot unilaterally block the European bailout loan request, the U.S. can recruit enough nations to achieve the majority vote that would be necessary to defeat it. “Those who opposed U.S. participation in the $145 billion of Greece were correct in assuming this would eventually lead to a costlier bailout of Europe, and the final tab will probably exceed $321 billion,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “The Obama Administration needs to stop taking America down this path which may end up costing hundreds of billions of dollars.” On March 24, 2010, Rep. McMorris Rodgers became the first Member of Congress to oppose using U.S. tax dollars for a bailout of Greece. In an April 29, 2010 press release, she stated, “The Obama Administration needs to understand that bailing out Greece will not solve Greece’s problems; it will only create a moral hazard that gets America more involved in the gathering storm of European bailouts.” ###
05.13.2010	(Washington, D.C.) – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) led a delegation of Spokane leaders to the Pentagon today to meet with Secretary of the Air Force Michel Donley and other high-ranking military officials to discuss efforts to bolster Fairchild Air Force Base, the largest employer in Eastern Washington. "I was delighted to lead the ‘Forward Fairchild Team’ in these important meetings which directly affect the future of Fairchild Air Force Base and the Spokane community,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. "We had an excellent exchange of ideas and information that will bear positive results for the people of Eastern Washington." One of the key topics at today’s meetings was replacing the aging KC-135’s at Fairfield Air Force Base and the acquisition process for the KC-X. The KC-X Tanker competition has experienced numerous delays since the process began in 2006 and the Congresswoman is working to ensure it remains a top priority for the Air Force. Other topics include the future of the Survival School, which is a very important part of Fairchild. The 36th Rescue Flight houses four helicopters that have saved more than 630 lives. There were also fruitful discussions about how to help Airmen and their families. As the Co-chair of the Congressional Military Family Caucus, Rep. McMorris Rodgers has raised awareness about the needs of military spouses and their children. Rep. McMorris Rodgers taped a brief video to offer her reflections and analysis of today’s meetings. Click here to watch it. ###
05.13.2010	"Community Pharmacists Deserve Support of All Americans" Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, rallied hundreds of pharmacy leaders at the National Community Pharmacists Association Rally on Capitol Hill today. "I’m proud to stand with our nation’s community pharmacists who are on the frontlines every day delivering quality, affordable health care to millions of Americans," said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. "Community pharmacists are a major stakeholder in America’s health care system, and they have a right to be heard when it comes to legislation that affects them. Federal policies should be geared to supporting community pharmacists; not undermining them." As a Member of Congress, Rep. McMorris Rodgers has worked to preserve access to independent community pharmacies. Often times, community pharmacists are the sole provider of medical advice in our rural communities. To give them a voice in Congress, last year Rep. McMorris Rodgers co-founded the Congressional Community Pharmacy Coalition. This bipartisan group of House Members has been very successful in acting as a clearinghouse of ideas and information on issues pertaining to community pharmacies and their customers. The National Community Pharmacy Association (NCPA) represents the nation's community pharmacists, including the owners of 23,000 pharmacies, over 65,000 pharmacists, and over 250,000 employees. ###
05.13.2010	McMorris Rodgers and Colleagues Introduce Bill to Protect U.S. Taxpayers from European Bailout “America Must End Bailouts, Not Export Them” Washington, DC – Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, joined Rep. Mike Pence, the Conference Chairman; Rep. Jerry Lewis, Ranking Member of the House Appropriations Committee; Rep. Jeb Hensarling; and Rep. Kay Granger in introducing legislation today to stop U.S. tax dollars from being used by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) for bailouts for European countries. Rep. McMorris Rodgers released the following statement today as the European Bailout Protection Act was introduced: “All across America, people are suffering from ‘bailout fatigue,’ and yet the Obama Administration is launching a new bailout bonanza: $8 billion in U.S. tax dollars for Greece, over $50 billion for the European Union, and perhaps billions more as European governments face the inevitable fiscal crunch caused by generous welfare benefits whose costs have become too exorbitant to pay.” “Former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher once said, ‘The trouble with socialism is that you eventually run out of other people's money.’ That is true, as we see today in Europe. I don’t want America to become an ATM machine for failed socialist policies thousands of miles away. The only way to restore Europe to prosperity is by following the path forged by Lady Thatcher: Reduce taxes, spending and borrowing. That requires tough choices and strong leadership. We see such leadership in places like New Jersey, where Governor Chris Christie is restoring fiscal sanity to his state. A $967 billion European bailout – partly underwritten by U.S. taxpayers – is an indication of failed leadership. An economic crisis caused by too much spending and borrowing will not be solved by more spending and borrowing. A ‘Euro-TARP’ is the wrong approach.” “Our legislation will protect U.S. taxpayers from becoming more involved in a ‘Euro-TARP’ by merely requiring the EU nations to meet the fiscal requirements mandated by their own charter before they can withdraw U.S.-provided funds from the IMF.” Background The European Bailout Protection Act would: 1) Prohibit any funds that have yet to be drawn by the IMF from being used to provide financing to any EU countries until all EU nations are in compliance with the debt to GDP ratio requirement in their own collective growth pact. 2) Require the Treasury Secretary to oppose any IMF loans to EU nations until all EU countries are in compliance with their debt to GDP ratio requirement. The bill does not permanently prohibit the IMF from lending to these nations; it simply prohibits the U.S. from participating in the proposed European bailout. Links of Interest: Beware of Greeks Bearing Bailout Plans (Op-Ed, BigGovernment.com) (Mar. 24) Letter to Secretary Timothy Geithner (Apr. 29) Rep. McMorris Rodgers on The Kudlow Report (Apr. 29) Rep. McMorris Rodgers at Republican Leadership Stakeout (May 5) Letter to Vice President Joseph Biden (May 5) Rep. McMorris Rodgers on Squawk Box (May 6) Rep. McMorris Rodgers on Fox News Special Report (May 6) Rep. McMorris Rodgers on Your World with Neil Cavuto (May 7) Why Should America Bail Out Greece? (Op-Ed, National Review Online) (May 7) We’re Bailing Out Greece (Op-Ed with Rep. Mike Pence, New York Post) (May 8) Rep. McMorris Rodgers on Bulls and Bears (May 10) My Big Fat Greek Bailout (Op-Ed, Human Events) (May 11) ###
04.27.2010	“I’m Proud to Work with the Chamber to Support Free Enterprise and Job Growth” Washington, DC – Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, was honored today by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and presented with their Spirit of Enterprise Award for supporting policies that will increase economic growth, job creation, and opportunity. “I am proud to accept the Chamber’s Spirit of Enterprise Award,” said Representative McMorris Rodgers. “The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is an outstanding leader for America’s business community, and I’ve enjoyed working with them on shared priorities, including lowering taxes, stopping harmful regulations, and removing trade barriers.” “The Chamber applauds Representative McMorris Rodgers for supporting the private sector and job growth through these difficult times,” said Thomas J. Donohue, president and CEO of the U.S. Chamber. “She has demonstrated great courage and we commend her.” Eligibility for the Chamber’s Spirit of Enterprise Award is based on how Members of Congress vote on key business issues. According to the Chamber’s scorecard, Representative McMorris Rodgers maintained an 80% rating last year and collectively holds an 87% ranking during her tenure in Congress. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is the world’s largest business federation representing the interests of more than 3 million businesses of all sizes, sectors, and regions, as well as state and local chambers and industry associations. ###
04.22.2010	The Federal Government Doesn’t Need to Be Looking for Puddles and Backyard Brooks to Regulate Washington, DC – Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), a member of the House Natural Resources Committee, came out in strong opposition to a new piece of legislation, The America’s Commitment to Clean Water Act, which was introduced today by Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman James Oberstar (D-MN). Chairman Oberstar’s bill would dramatically increase the scope of the Clean Water Act by removing the word “navigable” from the current definition of the Clean Water Act. This would effectively allow all waters to be subject to new and sweeping federal regulations and permitting. “The America’s Commitment to Clean Water Act is a misnomer,” said Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers. “The bill does nothing to make our water cleaner. Instead, the ACCWA inserts the federal government into water and land issues — federalizing what have traditionally been state and local concerns. Bureaucrats in Washington, D.C. should not have regulatory power over puddles, intermittent streams, and other water sources that have absolutely no connection to interstate commerce. The Constitution is clear on which responsibilities belong to Congress and which belong to the states. The ACCWA is an unconstitutional expansion of federal power at a time when the federal government needs to start scaling back.”
04.16.2010	Washington, DC – The U.S. House today passed a resolution (H. Res 1236) introduced by Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and Rep. Nick Rahall (D-WV) honoring the coal miners who perished in the Upper Big Branch Mine tragedy in West Virginia, extending condolences to their families and recognizing the valiant efforts of emergency response workers at the site. “Coal mining has been a cornerstone of this nation since our early beginnings,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “Crucial to our economic development, coal has been the predominant source of energy. Men, women, and families have sacrificed so much over the last two centuries to keep our nation running.” “Because of the safety hazards and tenuous conditions, our nation has focused on creating and enforcing the most rigorous health and safety standards in the world today. For the most part, these protections have kept miners safe.” “Yet, as this tragedy reminds us, nothing is for certain. We must go back and understand the conditions and events that contributed to this tragedy to ensure that it never happens again.” “We will never forget the victims, their families, or of the tireless rescue and recovery efforts by their fellow miners and others critical to our nation’s mining operations.” The full text of the resolution is below. H. Res. 1236 In the House of Representatives, U.S.April 14, 2010 Resolution Honoring the coal miners who perished in the Upper Big Branch Mine-South in Raleigh County, West Virginia, extending condolences to their families and recognizing the valiant efforts of emergency response workers at the mine disaster.Whereas coal mining is a time-honored profession and miners and their families have shaped the history and rich culture of West Virginia and the Nation; Whereas the Nation is greatly indebted to coal miners for the difficult and dangerous work they perform to provide the fuel needed to keep the Nation strong and secure; Whereas the Nation has long recognized the importance of health and safety protections for miners who labor in extreme and dangerous conditions; Whereas accidents in the Nation’s mines have again and again taken the lives of coal miners; Whereas 29 West Virginia miners tragically perished in the Upper Big Branch-South Mine following an explosion on April 5, 2010; Whereas this was the worst coal mining disaster in the Nation over the last 40 years; Whereas Federal, State, and local rescue crews worked tirelessly night and day in courageous rescue and recovery efforts; Whereas the families of the fallen miners have suffered immeasurable loss; and Whereas residents of Raleigh County and throughout West Virginia came together to support the miners’ families: Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives— (1) recognizes the ultimate sacrifice made by the 29 coal miners lost at the Upper Big Branch-South Mine, Whitesville, West Virginia; (2) extends the deepest condolences of the Nation to the families of these men; (3) recognizes all coal miners for enduring the loss of their coworkers and maintaining courage throughout this ordeal; (4) commends the rescue crews for their valiant efforts to find these miners; and (5) honors the many volunteers who provided support and comfort for the miners’ families during the rescue and recovery operations.
04.16.2010	Average American Will Have to Work 137 Days This Year to Pay Their Share of Federal Spending Washington, DC – Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement in recognition of Tax Day. “On April 15th, better known as ‘Tax Day,’ the American people reflect on the size of their tax burden and whether or not they’re receiving good value for their tax dollars. This year, with the federal budget at $3.8 trillion, the budget deficit at $1.3 trillion, and with a host of new taxes taking effect on account of the health care bill, we have more reason than ever to be concerned about the impact that tax and spending policies are having on our economy and our freedom. Today’s protest rallies in Eastern Washington and across America show growing frustration with President Obama and the Majority in Congress, and I share that frustration.” “This year, the American people will pay more in taxes than they will spend on food, clothing and shelter combined. According to the Tax Foundation, the average American has to work for 137 days (or from January 1 to May 17) in order to pay their personal share of all federal government spending – either through taxes or borrowing. This represents the second-highest burden on American taxpayers since World War II (the highest was in 2009).” “Furthermore, there is no relief in sight. Starting January 1, 2011 – and over the objection of House Republicans – American taxpayers will be hit with the largest tax increase in U.S. history when the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts are set to expire.” “At a time when 15 million Americans are out of work and there is so much economic uncertainty, the worst thing Congress could do is raise taxes on families and small businesses. A better way to grow our economy is to reduce taxes, spending, and borrowing. By restoring fiscal discipline, we can create jobs and keep the American Dream alive for future generations.”
04.07.2010	We Owe it to Our Troops to Upgrade their 1950s era Equipment Washington, DC – Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement after the Pentagon announced a 60 day delay in awarding the KC-X Tanker contract. Further delays in awarding this contract do a disservice to the troops and the taxpayers. This process is years behind schedule and our Air Force is using planes that are more than half a century old. This process has already cost US taxpayers tens of millions of dollars and further delay will only raise those costs.
04.06.2010	The Thoughts and Prayers of our Nation are with the Victim’s Families SPOKANE- Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Ranking Member on the Workforce Protections Subcommittee, expressed her sorrow and support for the families and friends of the victims and missing workers involved in the tragedy at Upper Big Branch mine in Montcoal, West Virginia. “At this time of unimaginable grief for a small West Virginia community, the thoughts and prayers of our entire nation go out to the families, neighbors and friends of the victims.” “The federal government has a solemn obligation to promote the safety of coal miners, and to design and enforce regulations on their behalf. We will thoroughly investigate the causes of the disaster with the goal of strengthening miner safety, so that this tragedy will never be repeated.”
03.23.2010	“Unconstitutional Federal Requirements Should Be Overturned” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement after Washington State Attorney General Rob McKenna decided to join a multistate challenge to the constitutionality of the radical health care bill signed by President Obama today. “I agree with Attorney General Rob McKenna that the requirement for people to buy health insurance is an ‘unprecedented federal mandate’ that violates the commerce clause and the Tenth Amendment of the U.S. Constitution.” Under the controversial law, the Obama Administration will be hiring over 16,000 new I.R.S. agents to monitor people’s private health insurance. Those who are convicted of willfully evading the insurance requirement can be fined up to $100,000 and imprisoned for five years. “I voted against this $938 billion, 2,700-page bill for many reasons, and one of the most important reasons is that it will ‘erode the freedom of the American individual.’ I commend Attorney General McKenna for standing up for the citizens of Washington State who have the constitutional right to decide what is the best health care for themselves and their families.”
03.22.2010	“Congress Will Regret This Terrible Bill; The American People Deserved Better” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement after the U.S. House passed the Senate’s radical health care bill and then sent it to President Obama to be signed into law. “This is a sad day in American history. Despite the objections of the vast majority of Americans – many of whom travelled to Washington, DC this weekend to protest this dangerous bill – President Obama and Speaker Pelosi convinced enough House Democrats to bypass the will of the people and pass this unprecedented government takeover of America’s health care system.” “As I said on the House floor tonight, there is no question that America needs health care reform, but this bill will make things worse – not better – for the citizens of our great nation. This bill will increase premiums for working families, raise taxes on small businesses, and cut Medicare for seniors. It will also cost $938 billion at a time when government spending is already out of control and the national debt is at $12 trillion. And it will put tremendous strains on our private health care system while eroding the freedom and choices of the American individual.” “During the past year, President Obama and Speaker Pelosi chose to focus on health care – not the economy – even while 3 million Americans were losing their jobs. The end result of this process is a flawed bill that will kill even more jobs, prolong our economic slump, and saddle our children and grandchildren with more debt. None of this had to happen. There was a better way. And I will continue to advocate for common-sense, market-based solutions that will increase health care access and lower costs – all without raising taxes or increasing the deficit.” “Let there be no mistake: With the passage of this bill, America has become less like itself and more like a European welfare state. This transformation will have terrible consequences in the relationship between citizen and state – including a loss of freedom, innovation, and quality of life. And yet, we should be encouraged to know this isn’t the final chapter in this debate. At the first opportunity, we will repeal this bill, pass a better bill, and win our country back.”
03.18.2010	“There’s an Opportunity to Build on Recent Progress” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement after Education Secretary Arne Duncan testified at a hearing of the House Education and Labor Committee. “The economy is the most important issue facing America today, and that’s precisely why we need to strengthen the long-term foundation of our economy, which is our education system,” said Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers. “At a time when Republicans and Democrats are disagreeing over health care and government spending, there is reason to be hopeful that education is an issue where both parties can find common ground and come together in the best interests of the American people.” “The No Child Left Behind law (NCLB) revealed the true state of America’s schools and set standards that have served as a catalyst for progress and reform. It’s time to build on that success. Secretary Duncan’s testimony provides encouragement that we can modernize NCLB in a bipartisan way, and I look forward to seeing more details on his proposals.”
03.16.2010	“Slaughter Solution” Violates Will of the People Washington, DC – Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, expressed her support today for a resolution that would require an up-or-down House vote on the Senate health care bill. If passed, the resolution will prevent Speaker Nancy Pelosi from exercising the so-called “Slaughter Solution” in which the Senate bill would be deemed “passed” even though House members never voted on it. “I am strongly opposed to this radical health care bill and the arrogant tactics that are being used to pass it over the will of the American people,” said Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers. “The American people deserve an up-or-down vote on this bill, and I am appalled that Speaker Pelosi is working to prevent such a vote from happening. To say that a bill has been ‘passed’ without allowing Congress to vote on it is ‘Orwellian’ and un-American.” “It’s time to hit the restart button on health care reform. I support a series of common-sense, market-based reforms that will lower premiums for families and small businesses, promote healthier lifestyles, and increase access to affordable, high-quality care – all without raising taxes or adding to our crushing national debt. That’s what the American people want and deserve, and I will continue to advocate for that approach.” To watch the Congresswoman’s floor speech today, click here.
03.16.2010	Washington, DC – The U.S. House today passed a resolution (H. Res 1163) introduced by Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) recognizing Washington State University’s Honors College for fifty years of excellence. “The Washington State University Honors College is one of the most respected in the nation and it is wholly fitting that this House applaud its past and most certain future successes,” said Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers. This year marks the 50th anniversary of the establishment of the Honors College at WSU. To watch the Congresswoman’s floor speech on the resolution, please click here. The full text of the resolution is below. H. Res. 1163 In the House of Representatives, U.S. March 15, 2010 Resolution Recognizing Washington State University Honors College for 50 years of excellence. Whereas Washington State University Honors College was established in 1960, seventy years after the founding of the university; Whereas Sidney Hacker, Professor of Mathematics, directed the establishment of Washington State University’s Honors program; Whereas Washington State University, located in Pullman, Washington, is the state’s largest land-grant university and offers more than 200 areas of study; Whereas the Honors College offers an enriched four-year curriculum to highly able students and provides them with the opportunity to challenge themselves; Whereas Honors College studies promote critical and creative thinking, quantitative and symbolic reasoning, information literacy, communication, self in society, and disciplinary knowledge; Whereas Washington State University Honors College is one of the most respected programs of its type nationally; and Now, therefore, be it Resolved, That the House of Representatives— 1) Recognizes Washington State University Honors College for 50 years of excellence.
03.04.2010	Bipartisan Initiative to Prevent Seclusion and Restraint Advances to Senate Washington, DC – The U.S. House overwhelmingly approved legislation introduced by Chairman George Miller (D-CA) and Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) that will make classrooms safer for students and school staff. The House passed the Keeping All Students Safe in Schools Act (H.R. 4227) by a vote of 262 to 153. “I am genuinely pleased by the House’s bipartisan support for H.R. 4247, the Keeping All Students Safe in Schools Act,” said Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers. “This critical piece of legislation confronts the unimaginable situation in schools across the country whereby some of our nation’s most vulnerable children are treated in an inhumane and degrading manner.” “The thousands of incidents reported by the General Accounting Office and others together with the piecemeal approach taken by the states demonstrates the need for federal guidance. I’ve been proud to work with many organizations and this is a victory for them. I thank Chairman Miller for his leadership and my colleagues for their support. Together, we will work to ensure this bill is passed by the Senate.” The Keeping All Students Safe in Schools Act will, for the first time, put in place minimum safety standards to prevent abusive restraint and seclusion in schools across the country, similar to protections already in place in hospitals and residential facilities. States have two years to demonstrate their policies are consistent with the minimum standards. The standards would apply to schools that receive federal education support. Specifically the legislation would: Limit physical restraint and locked seclusion, allowing these interventions only when there is imminent danger of injury; Require schools to notify parents after incidents when restraint or seclusion was used; Encourage states to provide support and training to better protect students and prevent the need for emergency behavioral interventions; and Increase transparency, oversight and enforcement tools to prevent future abuse. Please see below for the Congresswoman’s floor speech, as prepared for delivery. I rise today in strong support for H.R. 4247, the Keeping All Students Safe Act, and I urge my colleagues to support it as well. This is a bill that confronts an unimaginable situation in schools across the country where our nation’s most vulnerable children are treated in an inhumane and degrading manner. When is it appropriate to lock up or tie up a child? Common sense tells us that these extreme measures should almost never be used against children with Autism, or Downs, or other learning disabilities. Yet, the truth is there have been thousands of incidents reported involving the inappropriate use of seclusion and restraint. Reports by the National Disability Rights Network, COPAA, GAO, and others reveal that our children are at risk for serious injury and even death in school settings. The bill that we are considering today outlines minimum standards that must be included in guidelines issued by the Department of Education. States have the flexibility to determine how best to implement these regulations. For the 10 states that already have comprehensive policies – all they need to do is show what they’ve already done. For other states, the law will put in motion a review of current practices and a chance to put in place adequate rules. When we send our son Cole to school, my husband Brian and I send him with the expectation that he is safe from danger. We entrust him to teachers, principals, and aides. And we know those school personnel have done an outstanding job to help him and keep him safe. But, this has not been the case for other children. Students have been traumatized, injured, and have even died in our classrooms. Ignorance is not bliss for the children who have been harmed. More than anything I want teachers and school administrators to have to support children who become anxious and unruly. If they better understand the situation, they’ll know that there are more positive choices to teach children rather than using harmful techniques such as restraint and seclusion. These guidelines already exist. This bill brings much needed parity to the protections already in place under the Children’s Health Act for children in public and private hospitals, medical and residential facilities. There are some who believe that this is an unprecedented expansion of federal authority. But, I disagree. The federal government took an important step when it opened the doors of education to every child in America, including those with disabilities. When we enacted the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, we committed to ensuring that students with special needs have access to a free appropriate public education. This bill assures that those children as well as all students are safe. I urge my colleagues to protect our children by supporting the Keeping All Students Safe Act.
03.04.2010	(Washington, D.C.) – As Co-Chairmen of the Military Family Caucus, Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and Rep. Sanford D. Bishop, Jr. (D-GA) sent a letter to Defense Secretary Robert Gates expressing their concern with the sudden suspension of the Military Spouse Career Advancement Program (MyCAA) and requesting a date for when the program will resume. Authorized in 2009, MyCAA provides critical educational benefits to military spouses allowing them to pursue portable careers in high demand, high growth occupations. 133,000 military spouses participate in the program. “Like thousands of military families, I am frustrated by the Defense Department’s decision to suspend the MyCAA without warning, and by the DOD’s lack of responsiveness on when the program will return,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “The stopping of this program and the confusion over its future has caused genuine hardship for America’s military families which need to be rectified. They deserve answers, and they deserve them promptly.” The letter to Secretary Gates was signed by 68 Members of Congress. A copy of the letter can be found here.
02.26.2010	Bipartisan Meeting Proves that Republicans Have a Better Way Washington, DC – Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement after the conclusion of today’s White House Health Care Summit. “I am pleased that Republicans Members of Congress had an opportunity to meet face-to-face with President Obama and prove to a national TV audience that a common-sense, step-by-step approach to health care reform will be more effective than a government takeover of one-sixth of the U.S. economy.” “The only hope for a bipartisan solution is to hit the restart button and finally put away the budget-busting proposals that the American people – in poll after poll – have consistently rejected. If Congressional leaders ultimately decide to use the Reconciliation process to pass their plan, the American people will be outraged, and rightfully so.” “There is much greater promise in bringing both sides together on behalf of a better solution which focuses on lowering premiums for families and small businesses, promoting healthier lifestyles, and increasing access to affordable, high-quality care – all without raising taxes or adding to our crushing national debt. I will continue to be a strong advocate for that approach.”
02.25.2010	(Washington, D.C.) – Today, the U.S. Defense Department presented its final Request For Proposal (RFP) for a new fleet of refueling tankers to replace the aging KC-135’s. Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), a member of the House Armed Services Committee, released the following statement: “I commend Secretary Gates and the U.S. Air Force for their continuing efforts to build the next generation of aerial refueling tankers. Right now, the men and women at Fairchild Air Force Base are flying air refueling tankers that are more than 50 years old. That is not consistent with our goal of having a modern Air Force using state-of-the-art technology.” “This acquisition process for the KC-X has been drawn out for too long and has cost taxpayers too much money. It is time that we see an open, fair, and transparent competition so that we have a final contract awarded this fall.” Since coming to Congress in 2005, Rep. McMorris Rodgers has been a strong advocate for Fairchild Air Force Base, the largest employer in Eastern Washington. The current KC-X Tanker competition process started in 2006 and the Congresswoman continues to ensure it remains the Air Force’s number one priority.
02.17.2010	Stimulus Bill Needed More of These Types of Projects to Grow Economy Spokane, WA- Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) announced today that The US Department of Transportation will be awarding a Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) Grant of $35 Million to the Washington State Department of Transportation for the construction of a segment of the US 395 North Spokane Corridor from Francis Avenue to Farwell Road in Spokane County. Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers released the following statement on the award: “I am pleased The U.S. Department of Transportation has chosen to award $35 million for the North Spokane Corridor. This is precisely the type of project the government should be funding. I have been a champion for this project since my earliest days in Congress, and for years, I have worked with local leaders and my colleagues in the U.S. House and Senate to advance it. In fact, the North Spokane Corridor has been a multi-generational project for our community for over 50 years. That’s why it’s great to see everyone’s dedication rewarded.” “One year ago today, President Obama signed into law the controversial $787 billion stimulus bill. I voted against that bill because it didn’t include enough measures to truly stimulate our economy, such as tax relief and infrastructure spending, while spending far too much money on other government projects that would not create jobs. The fact that over 3 million private sector jobs have been lost since the stimulus bill became law supports that argument. “As we look to the future, investment in our transportation infrastructure helps to ensure successful economic growth, development and global competitiveness. This international connector will help create more than $140 million annually in revenue to our community.” “This is vital to Eastern Washington as it will help farmers transport agriculture commodities and business owners transport their goods to other parts of the country.” “The North Spokane Corridor is an effective multimodal transportation mechanism for our community, state and nation. It will encourage the use of alternate transportation by providing park and ride lots and reserving space for high capacity transit.” “Once completed, the corridor will connect trade routes through Eastern Washington reducing travel time by approximately two million hours each year, which computes to about $28 million in savings, and will reduce gasoline use by approximately 1.7 million gallons annually.” To date Washington State has provided $555 Million in funding for this project compared to only $18 Million by the federal government.
02.05.2010	Bipartisan Initiative to Prevent Child Abuse Moves to House Floor Washington, DC – The House Education and Labor Committee favorably reported legislation introduced by Chairman George Miller (D-CA) and Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) to make classrooms safer for students and school staff by preventing the misuse of restraint and seclusion. The Committee passed the Preventing Harmful Restraint and Seclusion in Schools Act (H.R. 4227) by a vote of 34 to 10. “I’m pleased that H.R. 4247, the Preventing Harmful Restraint and Seclusion in Schools Act, was reported out of Committee today,” said Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers. “This is a victory for students, parents, families, educators, and advocates who have worked tirelessly to ensure the health and safety of children in schools.” “When I send my son Cole to school, I send him with the expectation that he is safe from danger. Yet, there have been hundreds of cases in which schoolchildren were harmed as a result of inappropriate uses of restraint and seclusion. Our bill is a long stride forward in ensuring that our tax dollars are not used to abuse children. I look forward to working with Chairman Miller and my colleagues to pass this bill through Congress this year, and have it signed into law.” The Preventing Harmful Restraint and Seclusion in Schools Act will, for the first time, put in place minimum safety standards to prevent abusive restraint and seclusion in schools across the country, similar to protections already in place in medical and community based facilities. After two years, states will need to have their own policies in place to meet these minimum standards. It would apply to schools that receive federal education support. Specifically the legislation would: · Limit physical restraint and locked seclusion, allowing these interventions only when there is imminent danger of injury; · Require schools to notify parents after incidents when restraint or seclusion was used; · Encourage states to provide support and training to better protect students and prevent the need for emergency behavioral interventions; and · Increase transparency, oversight and enforcement tools to prevent future abuse.
01.28.2010	Database to Track Earmark Requests is Up and Running Washington, DC –“Tonight, I’m calling on Congress to publish all earmark requests on a single website before there’s a vote so that the American people can see how their money is being spent.” – President Obama, Jan. 27, 2010 In August 2009, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rogers (R-WA) created Sunshine.gop.gov which does exactly what the President calls for. “As Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, one of my top priorities is to increase transparency and accountability in government,” said Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers. “That’s why I launched a website which enables citizens to track earmark requests by every member of Congress.” “I am eager with the Obama Administration to ensure that all citizens have the tools they need to track their tax dollars and determine if those expenditures are worth it.” Please watch my video announcing the launch of Sunshine.gop.gov. And click here to visit the website.
01.28.2010	“Spend-and-Borrow Economic Policies are Unsustainable; We Need a Greater Commitment to Fiscal Discipline and Free Market Principles” Washington, DC – Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, released the following statement tonight in response to President Obama’s State of the Union speech. “The best news from tonight’s speech is that President Obama has finally acknowledged there’s a problem with out-of-control government spending and deficits. While I support the President’s decision to place a freeze on discretionary spending, it can’t be an isolated step.” “If the President is serious about reducing government spending and getting the deficit under control, the first thing he should do is return the nearly $900 billion in unused TARP and stimulus funds which he is planning to use for more government spending.” “If the President goes ahead and spends that $900 billion, the benefits of any spending freeze of discretionary spending – which is only about 15% of the federal budget – will be next to nil.” “Experts agree that if Congress can get the deficit under control and stop threatening to raise taxes on small businesses, we can create an environment conducive to job growth.” “To bring our fiscal house in order, I support a balanced budget amendment, a line-item veto, and a willingness to confront all aspects of the federal budget – not just discretionary spending.” “To revitalize America’s economy, we must unleash the power of free minds and free markets, not overburden the private sector with new rules and regulations. And to keep America safe from our enemies, we need to stay on offense in the War on Terror, not shirk from our commitments.” “I look forward to working with President Obama and my colleagues in Congress to address the many challenges facing our country. While these are difficult times, I know that by working together in a new spirit of cooperation, we can ensure that America’s best days are ahead of us.”
01.22.2010	McMorris Rodgers Signs onto Detainee Transfer and Release Security Act of 2010 President’s Current Policy Endangers America, Needs to be Strengthened Washington, DC – On the eve of the President Obama’s self-imposed deadline to close the terrorist facility at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the Republican Conference, joined other House members to introduce legislation that would restrict the President’s ability to transfer Guantanamo detainees to countries with ungoverned spaces or active al-Qaeda terrorists or networks. “To win the War on Terror, America must be proactive and always one step ahead of its enemies,” said Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers. “The Christmas Day incident sheds light on the flaws in the Obama Administration’s detainee release policies – particularly those pertaining to nations which house al-Qaeda operatives, such as Yemen.” The Detainee Transfer and Release Security Act of 2010 would require the President, prior to any detainee transfer from Guantanamo to a foreign country, to certify to Congress the following: the country is not a state sponsor of terrorism; it can secure and exercise control over its territory; no portion of the country serves as a safe haven for terrorist groups, particularly al-Qaeda; and the country has no confirmed case of any individual released into their custody from Guantanamo that returned to terrorist activities. “The legislation that we are introducing today will require the Administration to ask the hard questions and to certify that a country is prepared to take detainees,” said Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers. “If a country is found to be unprepared, our transfer of detainees to that nation must end immediately.”
01.21.2010	Basketball Legend will Be Mourned Throughout the Northwest Washington, DC – Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) issued the following statement today on the death of former Gonzaga University Athletic Director and basketball coach Dan Fitzgerald. “It is with great sadness that I learned today of the passing of Coach Dan Fitzgerald. Like so many Gonzaga fans, I held Coach Fitzgerald in the highest esteem for transforming Gonzaga’s basketball team into a superpower and leading the Bulldogs to their first NCAA Tournament in 1995. My thoughts and prayers are with Darleen, Kelli, and Jim in their time of sorrow."
01.13.2010	We Stand Ready to Help Our Friends During This Dark Time Washington, DC – Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today on the devastating earthquake in Haiti. “My thoughts and prayers go out to the people of Haiti who have suffered a terrible tragedy. The American people are already mobilizing through a network of charities to provide relief to the victims. I stand ready to work with my colleagues in Congress and the Obama Administration to assist in the recovery efforts.”
01.11.2010	McMorris Rodgers Endorses C-SPAN’s Request for Transparency in Health Care Bill Negotiations President Obama and Congress Should Keep Talks Open to the Public Washington, DC – Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, issued the following statement today in support of a request by C-SPAN for the Democrats in Congress to open their health care negotiations to the public, instead of conducting them behind closed doors. “As a matter of principle, negotiations for this unprecedented legislation that will transform one-sixth of the U.S. economy and impact the lives of every single American should be open to the American people. Given the tremendous amount of concern over this legislation, it is unacceptable to shut the American people out and steamroll a bill through Congress without the proper scrutiny.” “During the 2008 campaign, President Obama repeatedly promised that health care reform negotiations would be public and broadcast on C-SPAN. The American people deserve openness, transparency, and accountability, not more secret backroom deals.” “Instead of enacting a budget-busting takeover of the health care system that will increase premiums and reduce access for hard-working Americans, we should hit the reset button, bring all sides back to the negotiating table, and implement a step-by-step common sense approach to reforming health care without adding to our crushing national debt.” ###
12.29.2009	McMorris Rodgers Statement on Passage of Health Care Bill in U.S. Senate Budget-Busting $871 Billion Bill is Wrong Prescription for America Washington, DC – Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), issued the following statement after Senate Democrats passed a 2,733-page government takeover of health care: “I am very disappointed about the passage of this bill which cuts Medicare, raises premiums on working families, increases taxes on small businesses, and compromises the high quality of care and access that Americans have come to expect from our health care system.” “Instead of enacting a costly government takeover of one-sixth of the U.S. economy, Congress should adopt a step-by-step, common-sense approach to health care reform. Together with my Republican colleagues, I have been and am currently advocating an alternative solution which focuses on lowering premiums for families and small businesses, promoting healthier lifestyles, and increasing access to affordable, high-quality care – all without adding to our crushing national debt.” “The Majority in the U.S. House and Senate will now begin negotiations on a compromise bill to be signed into law.” “As the process moves forward, I will continue to work to persuade my colleagues that this legislation is counterproductive, unacceptable and must be defeated. It’s still not too late to stop this bill, provided the Majority will listen to the American people as they’ve been elected to do.”
12.22.2009	FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Contact: Bill Toye December 8, 2009 202-225-2006 McMorris Rodgers and Bipartisan group of lawmakers introduce legislation aimed at producing healthy forests, rural jobs, domestic energy WASHINGTON D.C. — A bipartisan group of lawmakers from Oregon, Washington, and South Dakota today introduced legislation to give federal forest managers and scientists the tools they need to do necessary work on choked and beetle-infested forests to avoid catastrophic wildfire and put rural Americans back to work taking care of the forests again. The legislation was introduced by Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-Wash.), Reps. Greg Walden (R-Ore.), Kurt Schrader (D-Ore.), Stephanie Herseth Sandlin (D-S.D.), and Brian Baird (D-Wash.). Between the five representatives, their districts represent a total of over 112.4 million acres, or 175,755 square miles of land, and have over 15.3 million acres of national forest, an area about the size of West Virginia. The Healthy Forests Restoration Amendments Act of 2009 would amend the original bipartisan and successful Healthy Forests Restoration Act (HFRA), which was signed into law in 2003. Where implemented, it has reduced the incidence and severity of catastrophic wildfire. Since the bill was signed into law, however, wildfires have burned more than 40 million acres in the United States, an area larger than North Dakota, and have devastated habitat, water sources, and communities in rural America. The new legislation would give federal foresters and scientists the clear authority to use the proven-to-work tools in HFRA to address areas of the forests at highest risk of catastrophic wildfire. The bipartisan group also introduced a second bill, the Incentives to Increase Use of Renewable Biomass Act of 2009, which would encourage the renewable biomass energy industry to take firm roots by encouraging universities, public schools, hospitals, local governments, and Tribes at non-gaming facilities to use clean biomass energy, heating, or cooling systems. “Eastern Washington has felt the devastating effects of the Mountain Pine Beetle,” Rep. McMorris Rodgers said. “These effects, together with the lack of forest management, have left our forests vulnerable to dangerous and costly wildfires. We need to update the Healthy Forest Restoration Act to ensure that foresters and scientists have the tools they need to protect our forests and give them the resiliency they need to survive changing environments.” “Perhaps it’s how I was brought up on a cherry farm or owning a small business for over 21 years, but one thing I learned is that you don’t solve a problem by ignoring it,” Rep. Walden said. “We’ve ignored federal forests long enough to take stock of the results: staggering unemployment in rural Oregon, catastrophic wildfire, massive bug kill, and threatened habitat and watersheds. Simply put, our federal forests are a national treasure in peril. It’s time to act and get our rural communities working and taking care of the forests again.” “Forests can be managed in an environmentally-friendly way while producing much needed jobs in our communities,” Rep. Schrader said. “We need to recognize the economic and stewardship opportunities available in our national forests that will go a long way toward creating more jobs and managing our natural resources in a more sustainable way; and that is exactly what these two bills will accomplish. I’m proud to join Congressman Walden, my co-chair on the Healthy Forest Caucus, and the rest of my colleagues in continuing to advocate for bi-partisan solutions that help our local rural communities.” “This bipartisan package of measures represents an innovative way forward in forest and energy policy,” Rep. Herseth Sandlin said. “These bills will reduce wildfire risk, incentivize sound forest management and the use of woody biomass as a source of renewable energy, and create jobs in rural communities in western South Dakota. Taken together, I’m convinced these pieces of legislation will not only produce healthier forests and reduce wild fire risk, but complement efforts in the 2007 Energy Bill and jump start our nation’s effort to become truly energy independent.” “The focus of fuel reductions must be shifted to Condition Class II and III forested areas that pose the highest risk of catastrophic wildfires,” Rep. Baird said. Doing so would simultaneously improve the health of our forests, reduce the risk of wildfires, and provide raw materials needed to sustain our forest products infrastructure.” Support for the legislation: “The Healthy Forests Restoration Act was passed in 2003 to address catastrophic wildfire, insects and disease through forest restoration projects, but needs clarifying amendments to allow its intended implementation on the ground. To give our forests a fighting chance to adapt to a changing climate, we must restore health and resiliency. We believe this legislation will help accomplish this goal.” — Bernard Hubbard, president, Society of American Foresters “It’s been six years and it’s time to make a few modifications so that the HFRA truly accomplishes what was intended–namely to prevent catastrophic wildfires and insect and disease infestations.” — Tom Thompson, former deputy chief of the USFS “Forest managers would welcome the opportunity to plan and prescribe treatments that better match the scale of the problems that exist. Concerns about the effects of climate change and carbon losses only add to the impor­tance of getting more effective treatments quickly underway. Forest health and fuel treatments can be very costly when most of the material removed has little or no value. Biomass fuel use would offer a great tool to help cover treatment costs while also providing low-cost energy for public buildings in local communities.” — Dr. Paul Adams, College of Forestry, Oregon State University “Future climate scenarios predict longer, drier, hotter, summers which will lead to greater wildfire activity and more insect outbreaks with a very real threat of regeneration failure after disturbance. Letting forests die and burn in an­ticipation that the past forest will replicate itself in a future with large uncertainties around future climate conditions is a high risk approach. The potential for these forests to act as carbon sources instead of carbon sinks in the very near future is substantial. By thinning these forests to a level consistent with their carrying capacity, we can mitigate wildfire and insect impacts, and build resilience into the system while choosing the specimens and species that we think can survive and perpetuate on these landscapes. In effect thinning becomes both the climate mitigation and the adaptation strategy on these forests.” — Dr. Elaine Oneil, School of Forest Resources, University of Washington “This legislation goes a long way toward facilitating fuel reduction and restoring health and resiliency to our national forests and surrounding communities. This will help insure those forests provide environmental benefits everyone expects. Despite all the biomass that is available here in Oregon, the use of biomass for energy produc­tion here in central Oregon has not progressed as fast as we had hoped primarily due to up-front costs.” — Dr. Stephen Fitzgerald, Oregon State University, professor of silviculture & wildland fire specialist “Since HFRA was passed, in Deschutes County we have completed seven community fire plans, treated 103,833 acres of national forest lands, and treated an additional 63,100 acres of private lands. All of these acres are within the designated Wildland-Urban Interface as identified by Community Wildfire Protection Plans and we have not lost one home to wildland fire. This is a classic example of where federal legislation works and works as was intended.” — Joe Stutler, Deschutes County Forester, Oregon
12.09.2009	Legislation will, for the first time, address seclusion and restraint in schools; Embodies principles set by Obama administration WASHINGTON, D.C. – U.S. Reps. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and George Miller (D-CA) today introduced legislation that would, for the first time, protect all children in schools from harmful uses of restraint and seclusion. The legislation embodies principles outlined in a letter U.S. Education Secretary Arne Duncan sent to Committee Chairmen Miller today. U.S. Sen. Chris Dodd (D-CT) is also expected to introduce companion legislation today in the Senate. The lawmakers unveiled the bill at a press conference this morning; click here to watch (67.4 MB file). A U.S. Government Accountability Office report released last spring exposed hundreds of cases of schoolchildren being abused as a result of inappropriate uses of restraint and seclusion, often involving untrained staff. In some cases, children died. A disproportionate number of these victims were students with disabilities. “As a parent, when I send my son Cole to school, my husband Brian and I send him with the expectation that he is safe from danger. We entrust him to teachers, principals, and aides. And we know those school personnel have done an outstanding job to help him and keep him safe. Yet, we know this has not been the case for other children, particularly children with disabilities who are the most vulnerable and need the most protection,” said McMorris Rodgers, a member of the House Education and Labor Committee and vice chair of the House Republican Conference. “I’ve looked into this and have come to the conclusion that there is a lack of training. As difficult situations arise, teachers or principals just don’t know what to do. The legislation that we are introducing today gives states the needed guidance and resources to enable teachers and school personnel to handle difficult situations in the most positive manner possible.” “Something is very wrong when our children are at risk in their own classrooms,” said Miller, the chairman of the House Education and Labor Committee who requested the GAO’s investigation. “In some cases, the abuses these kids are suffering are nothing short of torture inflicted at the hands of the very staff we entrust with their safety. Today is a critical first step toward finally ending this nightmare of abuse and ensuring that all classrooms are safe for students, their teachers, and the entire school communities.” “The tragedies associated with the inappropriate use of seclusion and restraint are not only unacceptable, they are unconscionable,” said Dodd. “There is no place in our schools for what amounts to torture, and we need clear standards for the use of tactics that lead to the physical and psychological abuse of children. This legislation will set clear guidelines so that children and educators alike can be sure of a safe learning environment.” Restraint is used to restrict an individual’s freedom of movement. Seclusion is used to involuntarily confine a student in an area alone. Both practices are meant to be used only in situations of imminent danger. Among other things, the GAO found that restraint can become fatal when it restricts breathing, that many of the school staff who used these interventions in abusive ways had not been properly trained, and that these practices are often being used as a routine disciplinary tactic, rather than in response to an emergency. In some of the cases GAO investigated, ropes, duct tape, chairs with straps and bungee cords were used to restrain or isolate young children. Unlike in hospitals and other medical and community-based facilities that receive federal health funding, there are currently no federal laws addressing restraint and seclusion in schools. While the Children’s Health Act of 2000 regulates how and when restraint and seclusion can be used on children in these other settings, schools are not covered. State regulation and oversight varies greatly; many states provide no guidance or assistance regarding these behavioral interventions. The Preventing Harmful Restraint and Seclusion in Schools Act (H.R. 4247) would establish the first federal standards to protect students from misuse of restraint and seclusion and ensure the safety of everyone in the classroom. It would apply to public schools, private schools and preschools receiving federal education support. Specifically the legislation would: Establish important minimum federal safety standards in schools, similar to the protections already in place in hospitals and other non-medical community based facilities; Limit physical restraint and locked seclusion, allowing these interventions only when there is imminent danger of injury, and only when imposed by trained staff; Outlaw mechanical restraints, such as strapping kids to chairs, and prohibit restraints that restrict breathing; Require schools to notify parents after incidents when restraint or seclusion was used; Call on states, within two years of enactment, to establish their own policies, procedures, monitoring and enforcement systems to meet these minimum standards; Encourage states to provide support and training to better protect students and prevent the need for emergency behavioral interventions; and Increase transparency, oversight and enforcement tools to prevent future abuse. The Education and Labor Committee plans to mark up the bill early next year.
11.09.2009	Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers Statement on the Twentieth Anniversary of the Fall of the Berlin Wall Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) issued the following statement on the historic anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall: “Twenty years ago a symbol of oppression that was once thought to be a permanent physical division between a free West and an enslaved East Germany was torn down. It is a major milestone in the march towards freedom begun in Concord, Massachusetts over two centuries ago. “As a young woman I was moved by the images on television of a newly freed people and they have remained with me for the last twenty years. President Reagan’s steadfastness working to free those living behind the wall, serves as the model for all public servants and one to which I aspire.” “The people of East Germany are now granted opportunities at birth that their parents would have had to risk their lives fleeing Communism to enjoy.” “On this momentous anniversary, Americans stand firmly with free people around the world and people who seek to be free.”
11.07.2009	McMorris Rodgers Votes against Government Takeover of Health Care Cathy McMorris Rodgers voted against the health care reform legislation HR 3962 and released the following statement: “The American public has made clear Congress should get the right healthcare bill enacted – not just any bill. The bill that was passed today will leave our children and grandchildren a further trillion dollars in debt, with fewer health care choices, and more restrictions on their freedom. I voted no. “Women and seniors will be hit especially hard. Small businesses will be hurt by this legislation. It spends 1.5 trillion dollars and imposes more than 750 billion dollars in taxes on employers and it does it at just the time when we should be trying to reduce unemployment and create jobs. “According to the Administration’s own economic advisor, it will result in 5.5 million jobs being lost. Other “reforms” in the bill all but eliminate Medicare Advantage – hurting 20,000 seniors in Eastern Washington and millions across the country. “For our rural communities, the bill calls on the Institute of Medicine to study payment disparities in rural regions. We’re spending 1.5 trillion and the only relief we get is another study. “Republicans have a better solution – one that lowers premiums for families by as much as 10 percent. It saves billions by reforming our medical liability system. It increases access by allowing people to purchase insurance across state lines. “Although the House passed this bill today, it can still be changed in the Senate and in Conference Committee. So there’s still a chance to the Congress to do the right thing for the American people.”
10.30.2009	New Health Care Proposal Unveiled in House 2,000 Page Bill Will Cost $1 Trillion Washington, DC – Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), issued the following statement on the release of a new health care proposal by Speaker Nancy Pelosi to the U.S. House. “I’m very concerned about the health care proposal released by Speaker Pelosi and the House Democrats today. It is going to hit hard working families and seniors hardest.” “Unfortunately, this latest version is nothing more than a government takeover of health care that will ultimately raise taxes on hard working families, make severe cuts to Medicare, and put a government bureaucrat between patients and their doctors.” “Americans want real health care reform that will lower costs while at the same time protecting access to physician of choice. The Majority has promised again and again that if you like the health insurance plan you have today, you won't have to change it. The Majority’s bill shows a different agenda. The Medicare Advantage program that serves hundreds of thousands of seniors is going to be severely cut back causing insurance to be cancelled or premiums to skyrocket.” “As we've said before, this Pelosi program is the wrong prescription for America. Now is the time to implement a bipartisan solutions that reform healthcare where its needed. We can do this by reigning in lawsuits and utilizing information technology to increase efficiency within the system. We can guarantee coverage of pre-existing conditions and allow more competition across state lines without reinventing the whole health care system. These commonsense improvements are far better than the wholesale government takeover of the medical system that was proposed today.” Read The Bill Here
10.09.2009	(Washington, D.C.) In an effort to give Spokane-area seniors an opportunity to weigh in on health care reform, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers today announced a seniors town hall meeting. It will take place Monday, October 12th from 4:00-5:30 p.m. at University High School. “Health care reform will be one of the most important issues addressed by Congress and I want to make certain I hear from my constituents,” McMorris Rodgers said. ”This upcoming town hall will be an excellent opportunity to exchange ideas and share my solutions to make health care more affordable and accessible, protect Medicare and establish the appropriate role of government.” Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
09.30.2009	For parents and students in grades 9-12 interested in applying for a military academy upon graduation from high school. Please contact the Congresswoman’s Spokane Congressional District Office for information at 509-353-2374 or log onto her website at mcmorris.house.gov. Monday, October 12th – Colville6:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m.Colville High School Library154 Hwy 20 EastColville, WA 99114 Tuesday, October 13th – Spokane6:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m.Spokane National Guard Armory1626 North RebeccaSpokane, WA 99217 Wednesday, October 14th – Walla Walla6:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m.Walla Walla High School800 Abbott RoadWalla Walla, WA 99362 Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
09.25.2009	(Washington, D.C.) In a meeting with several top level officials, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers urged the Secretary of Defense and the Air Force to ensure a fair, open and transparent acquisition process. The meeting yesterday came a day before the Air Force released its request for proposal (RFP) for a new fleet of refueling tankers to replace the aging KC-135’s. “The Department of Defense and the Air Force assured me that they are documenting their internal work, guaranteeing the entire process is transparent,” McMorris Rodgers said. “The responses to my concerns about a fair and transparent process, together with the comprehensive strategy outlined by DOD, demonstrated to me that the Pentagon is prepared to move forward in the most fair, effective, and transparent manner possible. We cannot let this process fail again. A first-rate Air Force demands that the most advanced technology and aircraft are in place and ready when necessary." Since coming to Congress in 2005, McMorris Rodgers has been working to protect and expand the role of Fairchild Air Force Base, the largest employer in Eastern Washington. The KC-X Tanker competition process started in 2006 and McMorris Rodgers has continued to ensure it remains the Air Force’s number one priority. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
09.16.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers joined more than a dozen parents to talk about the special needs of millions of children throughout the nation who rely on our health care system on a daily basis. “Throughout the health care reform process, it is very important that those with a disability have a voice in pending legislation. Yesterday’s press conference was a step in the right direction for the disability community, and I look forward to hearing from others as well,” said McMorris Rodgers, who is mother of a 2-year-old son with Down syndrome. “I want to make certain that those in the disability community do not take a back seat in any type of health care reform that is passed by Congress,” McMorris further added. “As we move forward with health care reform, we must remember to protect the doctor-patient relationship. We need to ensure every American family has the ability to choose the doctor and treatment that best fits their needs.” McMorris Rodgers believes there are solutions to our health care problems that focus on lowering costs, covering the vulnerable and making health insurance more accessible. Additionally, she favors reforming medical liability laws, investing in health information technology and reducing waste, fraud and abuse in Medicare and Medicaid and enhancing quality of services provided. McMorris Rodgers also believes in empowering Americans to take control of their own health care decisions and leading healthier lives. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
09.15.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers released the following statement following President Obama’s decision to allow consideration of removing Snake River dams as an option to save salmon populations. The decision unilaterally amends a 2008 Biological Opinion issued by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, which enjoys broad bipartisan consensus in Washington State: “The Snake River Dams light our state with clean, green, renewable energy and have been the lynchpin of our economy since they were first built. They’re carbon neutral, salmon-safe and critical to our state’s economy. “The existing policy reflects consensus among the majority of interested stakeholders from around the State, reflecting an educated balance between jobs and salmon. That kind of bipartisan agreement is hard to find these days and it disturbs me that the Administration is preempting years of hard work by many in order to serve a narrow special interest. “Salmon are seeing record runs this year and the science simply doesn’t justify dam removal. Salmon and dams can coexist and are doing so successfully.” Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
09.11.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers released the following statement regarding the terrorist attacks on September 11th, 2001: “Eight years ago today, terrorists took the lives of innocent men, women, and children. It’s important we pause today to remember those lives lost in New York, the Pentagon and in Pennsylvania, as well as the first responders who lost their lives during the rescue. “We must also remember not just today, but every day, the men and women who dedicate themselves to keeping our country safe. Whether they are members of our Armed Forces, first responders or employees of government agencies, their efforts here and around the world protect the freedoms we enjoy here in the United States. “The men and women of Fairchild Air Force Base and their families deserve special recognition. I thank them and our community thanks them for their efforts in the Global War on Terrorism.” Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
09.09.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers released the following statement after President Barack Obama urged Congress to pass health care reform. “I share the President’s goal of reforming health care in this country, but do not believe that a government take over of health care is the best solution. Since the beginning of the discussion, I have been advocating an approach that is neither Democrat nor Republican, but that is right for American families. That means reforms that preserve the special doctor-patient relationship, lowers costs and makes our nation healthier.” “When I take my son Cole to the doctor, I don't want the doctor to do just something; I want the doctor to do the right thing. The same is true of health care reform; we shouldn’t rush to do something. Instead, we need to be sure we’re doing the right thing. I believe the right health care reforms will preserve individual choice and make health insurance more affordable for individuals, small businesses and their employees. In addition, I favor reforming medical liability laws, investing in health information technology and reducing waste, fraud and abuse in Medicare and Medicaid and enhancing quality of services provided. We must also empower Americans to take control of their health care decisions and lead healthier lives. Solutions such as these will not cost taxpayers trillions of dollars. Instead, they will work to keep costs down.” Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
08.13.2009	Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers unveiled a new and cutting edge tool giving taxpayers greater access to how the federal government spends our tax dollars. Sunshine.gop.gov allows visitors to track stimulus dollars, banks that received Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) funds, and earmark and authorization requests on one site. “Six months ago, lawmakers rushed through a $787 billion stimulus package and before that a $700 billion TARP program. With all this record spending, taxpayers should have the right to see how their tax dollars are being spent,” McMorris Rodgers stated. “Not only will this website give taxpayers more insight but it will ultimately hold the federal government accountable for how it spends our money.” “Sunshine.gop.gov is a vital addition to the efforts to make government spending more transparent,” said Tom Schatz, President of Citizens Against Government Waste. “It fills a gap that was left by the Administration, which has provided some transparency but has not made the information easily searchable. The website should be used by every taxpayer and the media to help improve the accountability of how Americans’ hard-earned money is being spent.” As Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference, McMorris Rodgers is leading the way in utilizing new media to connect constituents with their elected officials. Sunshine.gop.gov is an interactive site allowing visitors to view spending, comment on these expenditures and view legislation that will bring more transparency and accountability to the federal government. “Working with the private sector we were able to develop the website for under $20,000. This was a fraction $18 million contract awarded by the Administration for the redesign of their stimulus page Recovery.gov,” McMorris Rodgers said. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
08.12.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers released the following statement regarding Eunice Kennedy Shriver: “It was with sad news that I learned of the passing of Eunice Kennedy Shriver. She was a champion for the developmentally disabled, from founding the Special Olympics to encouraging research and understanding through the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development. I know my son Cole will benefit from her dedication to this cause. I, and others who’ve walked this path before me, will always be grateful for the work she did to ensure everyone, regardless of their ability, lives up to their full potential. My thoughts and prayers are with her family during these difficult times.” Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
07.29.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers today announced new legislation that empowers Americans—instead of the government—to lower health care costs and improve our nation’s health. McMorris Rodgers’ resolution, H.Res. 683, directs the House of Representatives to move forward on health care reform, in a way that lowers skyrocketing costs by encouraging parents, families and communities to commit to healthier lives. “Instead of putting a government bureaucrat between you and your doctor as an attempt to reduce health care expenses, I believe we can lower costs by encouraging healthy lifestyle choices,” McMorris Rodgers said. “Last year, Americans spent more than $147 billion on preventable, obesity-related conditions. If we as a society start living healthier lives, we can single-handedly reduce health care costs without raising taxes, spending more and cutting jobs—the medicine the Majority’s health care reform legislation prescribes for an ailing health care system.” In addition to focusing on prevention and wellness initiatives, McMorris Rodgers believes true health care reform must make health care more affordable by reducing costs, rooting out waste, fraud and abuse and reining in frivolous lawsuits that costs families millions of dollars each year in higher premiums. McMorris Rodgers believes prevention and healthy living are the cornerstone of health care reform. Earlier this month, she introduced legislation that will prevent cardiovascular disease in millions of American children. The Kids with Healthy Hearts Act provides grants to school districts to take the blood pressure readings of children in kindergarten through sixth grade. These tests would identify children with hypertension or early signs of hypertension. Once diagnosed, parents can consult with their doctor or school nurses on the appropriate course of treatment in order to reduce the likelihood of that child developing diabetes, heart trouble or other heart problems. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
07.24.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers announced that the long-awaited Eastern Washington Veterans Cemetery finally has a key source of funding. The Department of Veterans Affairs awarded an $8.8 million dollar grant to reimburse the state of Washington for expansion of the Medical Lake cemetery that will serve 90,000 veterans and their families. “Since 2006, I’ve been working with our local veterans to secure a state cemetery in our area,” McMorris Rodgers said. “This critical grant will achieve that goal and I look forward to attending the dedication next year.” "The Eastern Washington veterans community has worked long and hard to secure this cemetery," Spokane American Legion Commander Lyle Carstens said. "On behalf of Eastern Washington veterans, I want to thank everyone, including Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers, for making sure our veterans can rest in peace near their friends and family." “Now more than ever, we must do everything we can to support our brave servicemen and women who have served our country with distinction. It has been a true honor to work side-by-side with our veterans to obtain this grant, ensuring a final and proper resting place for our veterans.” McMorris Rodgers has been a long advocate and champion for our active servicemen and women and veterans. Recently, she co-sponsored legislation that would make family burial in state veteran cemeteries more affordable. Currently, federal cemeteries receive a $300 benefit to cover a portion of the burial for veterans and their families. The legislation McMorris Rodgers is cosponsoring, H.R. 2594, would provide the same benefit for burial in state cemeteries. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
07.24.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers led nine other women members of Congress, women small business owners and working moms in highlighting the adverse impact the current health care reform legislation will have on women, their families, their businesses and their jobs. “I know as a mother and a wife the decisions women make relating to the health and well-being of their families, whether it’s their children, husband, parents, or other family members, are among the most important decisions that will ever come before us,” McMorris Rodgers said at a press conference at the U.S. Capitol. “I now first hand we need to be able to trust our treating physicians and the recommendations they make – whether it be tests for my son Cole who has special needs or treatment for my husband or me.” “Yet, the bill that the Majority is pushing through Congress manipulates the doctor-patient relationship – putting the federal government and federal bureaucrats in charge of health care decisions – not patients. The bill doesn’t stop there either. It rations care and treatment and severely limits the insurance options available to individuals and families who may need it – all at an estimated cost of $1.28 trillion, putting our children and grandchildren deeper in debt.” In addition, experts believe the Majority’s current health care legislation will: Push 114 million individuals out of their current health insurance Force 4.7 million individuals out of a job Cause physicians and hospitals to cut staff and services if they are not reimbursed fairly and entirely for the services provided Instead of a government take over of health care, McMorris Rodgers favors health care reforms that preserve the doctor-patient relationship and allow tax credits and deductions to make health insurance more affordable for individuals, small businesses and their employees. In addition, she favors reforming medical liability laws, investing in health information technology and reducing waste, fraud and abuse in Medicare and Medicaid. Furthermore, McMorris Rodgers believes small businesses should be allowed to band together to purchase health care reform and encouraging participation in prevention and wellness programs. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
07.16.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers introduced new legislation this week designed to combat our nationwide child obesity epidemic. According to the Surgeon General over 12.5 million American children are overweight – dangerously increasing their risk for heart disease, high blood pressure, diabetes and other serious health problems. McMorris Rodgers’ legislation stops this disturbing trend by establishing grants creating a demonstration project that would voluntarily monitor children’s heart health. H.R. 3197, the Kids with Healthy Hearts Act, provides grants to school districts to take the blood pressure readings of children in kindergarten through sixth grade. These tests would identify children with hypertension or early signs of hypertension. Once diagnosed, parents can consult with their doctor or school nurses on the appropriate course of treatment. “This bill teaches our children to lead healthy lives,” McMorris Rodgers said. “Preventative testing will warn parents years before their children develop diabetes, heart trouble or other health problems tied to childhood obesity. Parents need as many tools as they can get to teach their children healthy habits and my hope is that this legislation will make their job easier.” “As we consider health care reform in this country, I believe prevention of disease should be one of the priorities,” McMorris Rodgers said. “Instead of government bureaucrats standing between you and your doctor in an effort to control costs, we should identify, treat and ultimately prevent unnecessary, expensive and life-threatening health problems.” Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
07.02.2009	(Spokane, Wa.) Ahead of its national meeting next week, today, U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA-05) urged national Shriners executives to spare closure of Spokane’s Shriners Hospital for Children. Shriners Hospital for Children in Spokane is one of six Shriners operated hospitals that have been selected to be closed down. Cantwell, McMorris Rodgers and Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) sent letters to the CEO of Shriners International emphasizing that closing this hospital would have a major impact on families in the Spokane region’s ability to receive needed care for their children. “In an era of skyrocketing healthcare costs, closing this hospital would have a major impact on families throughout the Spokane region,” said Cantwell. “Through no fault of the Shriners, the Wall Street meltdown has devastated their endowment, forcing the organization to consider closing some hospitals. Many of these families would have no where else to go for high quality care for their children. I urge Shriners executives to look at the impact the closure of this hospital would have on families in our area, and urge them to keep the facility open.” For the last 85 years, Shriners has been an integral part of our community providing unique orthopedic services while maintaining a safety net for our children,” McMorris Rodgers said. “The Shriners facility has provided state-of-the-art treatment and care to thousands of patients each year. Without Shriners, these patients may not have been able to receive the treatment they needed. We must do everything we can to make sure Shriners Hospital stays here in our region.” Spokane’s Shriners Hospital for Children provides critical access to health care for children throughout Eastern Washington and all over the surrounding Washington, Montana, Northern Idaho, Alaska and Canada. In these tough economic times children can receive life-saving care at no cost, children who might otherwise be unable to afford it. The hospital was built in 1930 and sees an average of approximately 9,000 children a year, free of charge. The hospital specializes in orthopeadics, burns, spinal cord injury and cleft lip and palate procedures. “Shriners has been an important part of the Spokane region’s health system since 1924,” said Rich Hadley, President and CEO, Greater Spokane Incorporated. “The hospital employs about 170 people, and educates 30 medical and nursing students each year through pediatric internships. If Shriners closes, Spokane will lose a vital teaching center and an institution that’s been a part of the community since 1924.” McMorris Rodgers Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006 Cantwell Contact:Ciaran Clayton202-224-8277
07.01.2009	(Washington, D.C.) As Congress prepares to make significant changes to our nation’s health care system, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers wants to hear directly from Eastern Washington. During the week of June 29th, McMorris Rodgers will meet with medical professionals, educators and the public to discuss their health care challenges and proposed solutions to ensure that all Americans have access to quality, affordable health care. Press Availabilities Tuesday, June 30:3:30 p.m. Tour and meet with doctors and staff at newly-renovated Providence Mt. Carmel Hospital982 East Columbia Avenue, Colville, WA 99114Contact: Lori Johanson-Fogle/509-685-5481 Wednesday, July 1:3:30 p.m. Visit and blood donation at the Inland Northwest Blood Center210 West Cataldo, Spokane, WA 99201Contact: Monique Dugaw/509-232-4441 Thursday, July 2: 10:30 a.m. Tour and meet with doctors and staff at newly-renovated Whitman Hospital and Medical Center1200 West Fairview, Colfax, WA 99111Contact: Jon Davis/509-397-3435 12:00 p.m. Health care discussion with Colfax Chamber of Commerce and RotaryCommunity Education and Training Center119 North Main, Colfax, WA 99111Contact: Tim Myers/509-397-6238 2:00 p.m. Health care forum with Pullman area business leadersSchweitzer Engineering Laboratories Event Center1825 Schweitzer Drive, Pullman, WA 99163Contact: Adina Bielenberg/509-334-8776 4:30 p.m.Press conference in support of Spokane Shriners HospitalSpokane Shriners Hospital911 West 5th Avenue, Spokane, WA 99204Contact: Destry Henderson/202-225-2006
06.26.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers voted against Cap and trade legislation that would have imposed a massive tax increase on hard working families. In fact, The Wall Street Journal called H.R. 2454 the“biggest tax in American history.” “Sadly, this bill is just an expensive job killer that will hurt American families, farmers and small businesses,” McMorris Rodgers said. “At a time when our economy is hurting, we should explore ways of making clean, American energy more affordable—not adding to the cost of energy and eliminating jobs.” Cap and trade will have a severe impact on our economy. According to a recent non-partisan study, the legislation would eliminate 3,200 jobs in Eastern Washington and raise gasoline prices. It will raise the average American family’s energy bill by $1,500 each year. Instead of the energy tax, McMorris Rodgers favors development of every possible source of clean, American energy. As the ranking member on the Water and Power Subcommittee, McMorris Rodgers successfully added language to an alternative measure, the American Energy Act, which would classify traditional and new forms of hydropower as renewable energy. “Our abundant hydropower protects local Eastern Washington families from some of the harshest consequences from the energy tax,” McMorris Rodgers said. “But cap-and-trade will hurt all Americans, and hobble America’s drive for energy independence.” The American Energy Act not only promotes the use of hydropower and nuclear energy, but also encourages clean exploration and development of oil and oil shale. It also streamlines the development of new energy sources and refineries and encourages homeowners and businesses to improve energy efficiency. “Let’s begin saying yes to American energy,” McMorris Rodgers said. “We can create jobs, lower energy costs and achieve American energy independence by unleashing all forms of energy that are available right here at home.” Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
06.25.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers secured $4.15 million to replace an outdated and cramped refueling vehicle maintenance facility at Fairchild Air Force Base as the House passed the National Defense Authorization Act for 2010. McMorris Rodgers, as a member of the House Armed Services Committee, voted to approve funding levels for the upcoming year. Currently, crews from the Air Force's 92nd Air Refueling Wing and the National Guard's 141st Air Refueling Wing work in separate, undersized, substandard and environmentally deficient buildings as they repair vehicles that support the KC-135 air refueling tankers. McMorris Rodgers’ $4.15 million authorization will combine the two crews into one building. “The aging KC-135 tankers at Fairchild Air Force Base and the vehicles that support the planes are critical components of our country’s defense,” McMorris Rodgers said. “It’s important the men and women have adequate facilities to maintain the support vehicles the tanker fleet relies upon.” Eastern Washington businesses, biofuel producers and troops will also benefit from additional key provisions McMorris Rodgers added into the bill. This language: Encourages the Secretary of Defense to explore using online self-help tools for soldiers seeking mental health treatment Creates a more competitive bidding process that will allow small technology companies to compete for defense contracts Supports the use of biofuels in domestic military transportation McMorris Rodgers also praised the provisions in the bill which give military commanders the support and reinforcement they need to fight terrorists in Iraq and Afghanistan as well as a 3.4 percent pay raise for our troops. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
06.23.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers raised serious questions about a far-reaching proposal to reform our country’s health care. McMorris Rodgers, a member of the Education and Labor Committee, participated at a committee hearing examining the Majority’s Tri-Committee 852-page draft proposal and released the following statement: “I believe we are facing a serious health care crisis and we must do everything we can to fix this problem. Everywhere I go I hear about the lack of doctors, nurses, the high cost of health insurance, and limited access to quality health care. However, I disagree that this draft legislation is the solution. Unfortunately, it is nothing more than the first step toward a government takeover of health care, allowing federal bureaucrats to determine health care standards rather than doctors and patients. “As I approach the current health care debate, I believe the most appropriate solutions should focus on making health insurance more affordable for individuals, small businesses and their employees. Tax credits and deductions can help. In rural areas especially, we need to increase the number of health care providers, with incentives and fair reimbursements for doctors and pharmacists. Finally, I believe we must empower parents to make healthy choices for their families and choose the treatments they need in consultation with a doctor they trust. I would not want anyone else deciding what doctor or treatment my son receives, and I insist that every parent have that same freedom. “Health care reform must encompass a comprehensive strategy — one that fosters choice, ensures accountability, reduces costs and promotes wellness. We can do these things without the federal government setting up shop as a health insurance company.” Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
06.19.2009	(Washington, D.C.) There is new ammunition in the war against drugs in Eastern Washington. This week, the U.S. House of Representatives approved Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers’ request for money to help treat and prevent prescription drug abuse. “Washington State leads the nation in deaths from prescription drug abuse and the problem among adults and children is growing worse. We must fight these disturbing trends and this money will greatly help our efforts,” McMorris Rodgers said. The FY2010 Commerce, Science, Justice Appropriation bill contained McMorris Rodgers’ request for $500,000 which will fund equipment, materials and staff at the Washington State University Program of Excellence to research the treatment and prevention of prescription drug abuse. "This funding will advance our ability to respond to the crisis of prescription drug abuse in a thoughtful, evidence-based fashion. Working hand-in-hand with law enforcement, policy makers, prevention, and treatment specialists we hope to develop and refine solutions to combat the scourge of prescription drug abuse,” WSU’s Director of Program of Excellence in the Addictions Dr. John Roll said. “We are deeply grateful to Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers for her efforts to improve the health of our nation's citizens through her support of our work." According to the Washington State Department of Social and Health Services, during a 30 day time period in 2008, 4% of eighth graders, 10% of 10th graders and 12% of 12th graders used prescription pain medicine to get high. Among 12th graders who abused prescription drugs, more than half of them used them three or more times in the same time period. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
06.19.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Eastern Washington troops, small technology businesses and biofuel producers will benefit from legislation the House Armed Services Committee passed early this morning. The bill authorizes funding for the Department of Defense for Fiscal Year 2010. Committee member Congresswoman Cathy McMorris successfully pushed key provisions in the bill that: Encourage soldiers to seek key medical treatment. McMorris Rodgers’ provision directs the Secretary of Defense to explore new internet technology, similar to virtual agents, to provide interactive self-help for behavioral and mental health needs. “We must do more to break down the stigma within the military that is associated with counseling and seeking help,” McMorris Rodgers said. “While our brave men and women are serving our country, we must ensure they have access to all possible forms of treatment. Developing a virtual agent further protecting their identity is a great starting point.” Level the playing field for small businesses and create a more competitive bidding process. “Small businesses are the backbone of our economy and often lead the way in information technology innovation within the Department of Defense’s information technology system,” McMorris Rogers said. “A competitive bidding process is a win-win situation. Not only does it result in a better product for the Defense Department, but also protects the taxpayer by brining down the price.” Support biofuels in domestic military transportation. “America needs a comprehensive energy policy that includes expanding the use of biofuels. And with the U.S. military being the largest purchaser of oil in the world, this provision encourages spending tax dollars for fuel here at home, instead of overseas,” McMorris Rodgers said. McMorris Rodgers criticized the Majority that blocked efforts to restore a $1.2 billion cut in the missile defense program. “The North Korea threat is a very serious one. We cannot take lightly intelligence reports and news stories on North Korea’s continued development of short, mid and long-range nuclear capabilities. We must do everything possible to protect all Americans.” Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
06.16.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Fire season is rapidly approaching forests across Eastern Washington. Few will forget 2006, when trees weakened by pine beetles fueled the 175,000 acre Tripod fire that burned the Okanogan National Forest. With that fiery past in mind, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers today co-chaired a hearing about the devastating impact the Mountain Pine Beetle had and continues to have on forests across the Western United States. McMorris Rodgers, ranking member on the Water and Power Subcommittee, listened as representatives from local, state and federal agencies, conservation groups and business groups shared their suggestions about how stop the infestations. In her opening remarks, McMorris Rodgers suggested that healthy forests depend upon a responsible forest management plan. “We waste valuable taxpayer dollars fighting wildfires when we could have prevented them in the first place. In fact, over half of our Forest service budget goes to fighting wildfires and that will only get worse if we don’t address the root of the problem – overcrowded forests and diseased and dying trees. We can’t continue to grow over 20 billion board feet of timber annually and only harvest two billion board feet and expect to have healthy forests,” she said. In Congress, McMorris Rodgers has advocated for more timber harvests to prevent overgrown forests from becoming a breeding ground for disease and fire. Contact: Destry Henderson 202-225-2006 202-279-0418
06.16.2009	(Washington, D.C.) In 1909, a Spokane woman wanted a way to honor her father for raising her and her siblings after their mother passed away. Little did Sonora Smart Dodd know her idea would eventually lead to a day celebrating our fathers each year. This week, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers introduced legislation (H.Res. 539) recognizing Sonora Smart Dodd’s idea to create Father’s Day and the important role fathers play in our lives. “I thank my dad—and all the other fathers out there for serving as role models and for setting positive examples for all of us,” McMorris Rodgers said. “This resolution is a way to show my appreciation for all fathers and to Sonora Smart Dodd, whose idea to recognize fathers is just one more reason we can be proud of Eastern Washington.” Research has consistently shown that the presence of a father is one of the most important factors in the health and well-being of a child. As advisors and role models, fathers help their children understand the difference between right and wrong and help them set goals for their future. "All the fathers who have taken the time to be with their children deserve to be honored for the critical role they’re playing,” McMorris Rodgers said. “I think I can speak for mothers everywhere in thanking them.” After attending a Mother’s Day celebration in 1909, Sonora Smart Dodd decided she wanted a way to honor fathers. Dodd praised her father, a Civil War veteran, who raised six children on his own following the death of his wife. On June 19, 1910, Spokane hosted the first celebration of Father’s Day at the YMCA. Next year, Spokane will celebrate the 100th anniversary of Father’s Day. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
06.10.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris announced all forms of hydropower will be considered renewable in a new energy plan introduced by Republican members of Congress. McMorris Rodgers successfully added language to the American Energy Act that defines traditional and new forms of hydropower as renewable. “In light of a Portland judge’s recent ruling threatening our dams, we must do everything we can to protect them. Classifying hydropower as renewable is a step in the right direction,” McMorris Rodgers says. McMorris Rodgers has been a strong advocate of hydropower as it meets our national renewable energy goals. “Right now, hydropower represents 75% of our country’s current renewable energy production,” McMorris Rodgers says. “Hydropower currently produces 6% of our nation’s electricity. We could double our use of this clean, renewable resource without building a new dam.” In addition to promoting clean, renewable sources of energy like hydropower and nuclear energy, the American Energy Act: Allows for the responsible exploration of energy on the Outer Continental Shelf, the Arctic Coastal Plain and in areas where oil shale exists Streamlines the legal process for developing new energy sources and new refineries Encourages homeowners and businesses through tax credits to improve energy efficiency and offers a $500 million prize for the first U.S. carmaker that sells 50,000 vehicles that get 100 miles per gallon “At a time of growing energy demand, it doesn’t make sense to throw hydropower and other forms of American energy away,” McMorris Rodgers says. “Instead of taxing new forms of energy sources, this plan encourages responsible energy development, conservation and innovation.” Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
06.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Today Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers spoke on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives advocating solutions to America’s health care challenges. Instead of government-run health care, McMorris Rodgers believes we must maintain our private doctor-patient relationship, health care innovation and the high quality of care that has defined America’s health care industry. Video available here.Audio available here. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that we deal with a lot of issues here in Congress. But there is probably no issue more important to millions of moms across the country than health care. When your son or daughter is sick, there is nothing more important than making sure they get better. And many women across this country are taking care of their parents and in-laws. Often consumed with countless tests and doctors appointments and wrestling with insurance companies and Medicare. As we address health care, what does every American deserve? What does every mom demand? First, it’s to have access to doctors and nurses you know and trust. The doctor-patient relationship is one of the most important relationships in our country and it’s really the foundation of our health care system. Second is to protect the high quality of health care that we’ve enjoyed. We’ve been the innovators. We’ve been the ones to do the research to cure diseases and we have really been the envy of the world. And third is to reduce health care costs. This must be at the heart of reform. Thank you Mr. Speaker. I look forward to working with Republicans and Democrats to address this issue. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
05.29.2009	(Spokane, WA) Just days after speaking at the groundbreaking of the Eastern Washington Veterans Cemetery, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers announced new legislation that would make family burial in state veteran cemeteries more affordable. Right now, federal cemeteries receive a $300 benefit to cover a portion of the burial for veterans and their families. McMorris Rodgers is a co-sponsor of legislation (H.R. 2594) that would provide the same benefit for burial in state cemeteries. “In about a year, we’ll have a brand new state veteran cemetery in Eastern Washington,” McMorris Rodgers said. “This legislation will allow veterans and their families to remain together not only in life, but after a loved one passes away.” On Monday, May 25th, McMorris Rodgers spoke at the Memorial Day dedication and groundbreaking of the new Eastern Washington Veterans Cemetery in Medical Lake—a project that has been in the works since 2006. “Today is an appropriate day for this ground breaking,” McMorris Rodgers told the crowd. “We have crossed many hurdles to get to this point and I am honored to be with all of you.” While back home in Eastern Washington during the May work period, McMorris Rodgers is focusing primarily on veterans and military members. On Saturday, May 30th, McMorris Rodgers is hosting her third annual Veterans and Military Family Resource Fair. More than 50 organizations will be on hand to provide veterans, military members and their families information about the resources and programs available to them. The Veterans and Military Family Resources Fair is from 10:00 a.m.-1:00 p.m. at WSU Spokane. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
05.26.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers will spend Congress’ May district work period meeting with and honoring Eastern Washington veterans, military members and their families. “We must remember and honor our fallen soldiers and pray for those who are serving—not just on Memorial Day, but year round,” McMorris Rodgers said. “I look forward to hearing the concerns of Eastern Washington veterans as well as connect them with the many services and benefits available to them.” McMorris Rodgers will attend these veteran and military-related events during the next week: Monday, May 25, 2009 9:00 a.m.Chewelah Kiwanis BreakfastFree Methodist Church, 203 North 2nd Street E, Chewelah, WA 10:00 a.m. Colville Memorial Day ServiceCalvary Cemetery, East 7th Street, Colville, WA 1:00 p.m. Eastern Washington Veterans Cemetery GroundbreakingWest Espanola Road, Medical Lake, WA Tuesday, May 26, 2009 7:30 a.m. Update to GSI Armed Services CommitteeClosed to public and press Friday, May 29, 2009 11:00 a.m. Fairchild Air Force Base VisitClosed to public and press Saturday, May 30, 2009 10:00 a.m. Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers’ Third Annual Veterans and Military Family Resource Fair10:30 a.m. Town Hall with McMorris Rodgers and Veterans Affairs Representatives11:30 a.m. Ribbon Cutting of Veteran Outreach Center’s new community outreach vehicleWSU Spokane Riverpoint Campus, 412 East Spokane Falls Blvd Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
04.29.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Tomorrow, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers will lead Spokane-area business and community leaders to the Pentagon to meet, for the first time, the two highest-ranking leaders of the U.S. Air Force. The delegation will meet with Secretary of the Air Force Michael Donley and Air Force Chief of Staff General Norton Schwartz to discuss issues important to Fairchild Air Force Base. “Right now, the men and women at Fairchild Air Force Base are flying air refueling tankers that are more than 50 years old. We wouldn’t get on a passenger plane that old—our military shouldn’t have to rely on planes that old either,” McMorris Rodgers said. “We look forward to hearing the Air Force’s plan to replace these tankers and base them at Fairchild AFB. We’ll also praise the support from the Eastern Washington community that allows Fairchild AFB to remain a valuable asset for protecting our nation here and abroad.” Tomorrow’s visit to the Pentagon is part of Greater Spokane Incorporated’s annual visit to Washington, D.C. where business, education and community leaders discuss issues important to Eastern Washington, including Fairchild Air Force Base. "We thought about driving a ‘57 Ford to D.C. to make the point that the KC-135 refueling tankers must be replaced and that Fairchild AFB is ready to be the first operational base to accept them,” Greater Spokane President and CEO Rich Hadley said. “We are the strategic bridge and thoroughfare to the Pacific and to Asia, and it’s important the Pentagon knows the Spokane community fully supports Fairchild’s mission.” Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
04.06.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers announced her itinerary for a visit to Walla Walla on Tuesday, April 7, 2009. 10:00 a.m.Walla Walla Clinic TourMeeting with executive staff to discuss the Walla Walla Clinic’s approach to health careClosed to press 11:00 a.m.Key Technology TourMeet with CEO David Camp to discuss economic challenges and opportunities in the automation industryClosed to press 12:15 p.m.Downtown Walla Walla TourVisiting downtown small business owners to discuss economic challenges and opportunitiesOpen to press. Walking tour begins at approximately 12:15 at Inland Octopus at 220 East Main Street. 2:00 p.m.Whitman College VisitMeeting with President George Bridges and students to discuss their Campus Climate Challenge initiativeClosed to press 3:00 p.m.Walla Walla Community CollegeMeeting with members of the Walla Walla Water Alliance and Walla Walla Wine AllianceClosed to press Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
04.03.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Just like families and small businesses across Eastern Washington are prioritizing and making tough spending decisions in this economy, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers believes Congress and the federal government must do the same. That is why today, McMorris Rodgers voted for a budget that proposes to balance the federal budget. Since coming to Congress, McMorris Rodgers has supported this goal, and is a cosponsor of a Constitutional amendment that does just that. “Families, small businesses and even the State of Washington must balance their budgets. It’s difficult and it forces some hard choices,” McMorris Rodgers said. “It’s time for the federal government to do the same. We can’t grow jobs and improve the economy by carrying this huge amount of debt. “Like most moms in this country, I look at my two year old son Cole and wonder what kind of world he will have, what will his dreams be, and will he have the same freedoms and opportunities that we enjoy today. By controlling spending, limiting our debt and strengthening small businesses, we can ensure the next generation has the same opportunities and freedoms we enjoy.” Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
03.26.2009	(Washington, D.C) When a veteran receives care at a rural Eastern Washington hospital, the Department of Defense may not fully reimburse that hospital for the care provided. In some cases, the DoD’s TRICARE program, which provides health coverage for retired veterans, reimburses Critical Access Hospitals at much lower rates than Medicare—in some cases, up to 20% less. Low TRICARE reimbursement rates make it difficult for the 15 Critical Access Hospitals in Eastern Washington to provide care for veterans. That is why Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers recently asked the DoD to increase TRICARE reimbursement rates. In a letter to the DoD, McMorris Rodgers joined Congressmen Mike Simpson (R-Id.) and Rick Larsen (D-Wa.) to ensure Critical Access Hospitals who treat veterans receive TRICARE reimbursements at the same level as Medicare reimbursements. “One of my top priorities is to ensure Eastern Washington veterans receive the benefits they’ve earned,” McMorris Rodgers said. “We can’t balance the budget on the backs of veterans by not paying doctors for the care they’ve performed.” This is McMorris Rodgers’ latest effort to ensure Critical Access Hospitals aren’t penalized when treating veterans. In order to be classified as a Critical Access Hospital, and receive cost-based reimbursement from Medicare, hospitals must not have more than 25 beds occupied at any time. In February 2009, McMorris Rodgers cosponsored the Critical Access Hospital Flexibility Act (H.R. 668), introduced by Representative Greg Walden (R-Ore.). The legislation gives Critical Access Hospitals more flexibility in how they account for the 25-patient bed requirement and exempts beds occupied by military veterans from the inpatient bed count. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0419
03.17.2009	(WALLA WALLA, Wa.) People in Southeastern Washington have a new resource to ask their elected Congressional representative a question or provide feedback. Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers announced Gerri Coleman as her Walla Walla Deputy District Director. “Gerri brings to my office a long history of service and experience and great knowledge of Southeastern Washington,” McMorris Rodgers said. “I appreciate her being my ‘eyes and ears’ in the area, and urge anyone with a question relating to the federal government to contact Gerri for help.” Coleman is a life-long member of the Walla Walla community and is a former small business owner. She is very involved in the Southeastern Washington community and has participated in a number of workforce, education and business development efforts, including most recently serving on the board of the Association of Washington Business “I look forward to continuing to serve the Southeastern Washington community in my new role,” Coleman said. “Whether it’s economic, transportation, veterans or resources issues, I will work closely with Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers and people throughout our area.” The Walla Walla District Office is located at 29th South Palouse Street in Walla Walla. You can contact Gerri at (509) 529-9358 or by e-mail at gerri.coleman@mail.house.gov. Contact: Destry Henderson 202-225-2006 202-279-0418
03.17.2009	(Washington, D.C.) This week, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers spoke on the House floor to raise awareness of deep vein thrombosis, a disorder that claims thousands of lives annually. Representatives McMorris Rodgers and Lois Capps (D-CA) introduced legislation recognizing March as Deep Vein Thrombosis (DVT) Awareness Month, recognizing the second Tuesday in March as National DVT Screening Day and honors former Washington State Congresswoman Jennifer Dunn. Rep. Dunn passed away in 2007 of a pulmonary embolism, caused in some cases by DVT. “I am honored to call Jennifer a friend and a mentor,” McMorris Rodgers said. “Let’s remember, and others like her, as we recognize the risks and treatments for deep vein thrombosis.” According to the Coalition to Prevent Deep Vein Thrombosis, DVT is a common but serious medical condition that occurs when a blood clot forms in a deep vein, usually in the calf or thigh, and either partially or completely blocks blood flow in the vein. DVT affects approximately 2 million Americans a year. “Jennifer worked tirelessly to better the lives of everyone in Washington State and across the country while serving in Congress,” Jennifer Dunn’s husband Keith Thomson said. “Jennifer’s work continues today with this effort to raise awareness of DVT, its symptoms and risk factors.” Click here to watch McMorris Rodgers’ statement at a press conference announcing this effort, or click here for pictures of the event. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
03.16.2009	A potentially life-threatening health condition affects millions of Americans each year but, tragically, most aren’t aware of the signs, symptoms or risk factors until it is too late. The condition is deep-vein thrombosis, commonly referred to as DVT. While up to 2 million Americans suffer from DVT annually, most people know far less about it than they do about allergies. A survey found 79 percent know “something or a great deal” about allergies, while just 25 percent know that much about DVT. DVT is a blood clot, often found in your legs, which can break off and travel to your lungs causing a potentially fatal condition called pulmonary embolism or PE. The statistics surrounding DVT and its related complication, PE, are staggering: approximately 300,000 Americans die each year from DVT and PE, and complications from DVT kill more Americans than breast cancer and AIDS combined. DVT-related PE is the most common cause of preventable hospital death in the United States. DVT is a national public health crisis, but many patients – and even healthcare professionals – are unaware of the risk. There is progress being made, including a Call to Action on DVT and PE released last year by the Office of the Surgeon General. It is designed to drive awareness in order to reduce the number of cases of DVT in the United States. However, there is still more work to be done. We decided to become more involved in the effort to prevent DVT because both our lives have been tragically touched by this condition. In 1997 Congresswoman Capps’ husband, Congressman Walter Capps, died from a cardiac incident which may have been caused by DVT and Congresswoman Cathy McMorris-Rodgers’ mentor and friend, former Washington State Congresswoman Jennifer Dunn, died due to DVT-related conditions in 2007. It is our hope that this resolution is just the start of several policy initiatives that will raise awareness of DVT and ultimately reduce the preventable deaths caused by this condition. This year we joined forces with the Coalition to Prevent DVT to help stop DVT before it strikes. We’ve introduced a resolution recognizing the second Tuesday in March as National DVT Screening Day. Through this resolution, we hope to highlight DVT as a national public health priority and honor the memory of beloved Congresswoman Dunn, who died due to DVT-related complications in 2007. Her son, Seattle’s King County Councilman Reagan Dunn, was present during the introduction in honor of his mother. Recognizing the importance of this resolution, the Coalition to Prevent DVT is launching a nationwide DVT RV tour – Driving to Reduce the Risks of DVT – on the first DVT Screening Day to drive dialogue about the need for proper DVT screening. By bringing this national health issue to local communities, the Coalition hopes to highlight the burden of this condition and underscore the need for greater risk assessment and proper treatment. For more than six years, the Coalition to Prevent DVT, made up of more than 60 members from medical societies, patient advocacy groups and other public health organizations, has been committed to making a difference for patients and their loved ones and has worked tirelessly to increase public awareness and establish DVT as a national health priority. Through efforts such as National DVT Screening Day and the Driving to Reduce the Risks of DVT RV tour, we challenge healthcare professionals to properly screen and treat patients for DVT in hospitals and healthcare offices throughout the country. With these goals in mind, we strive to reduce the incidence of DVT and PE. March is DVT Awareness Month but our efforts won’t end when the month does. The DVT RV tour is taking to the road to educate doctors and patients about the risk factors and ways to prevent DVT. Look for the RV in a city near you sometime between now and May and join forces with the millions of Americans who’ve been affected by DVT, the Coalition and ourselves to spread awareness about this serious, yet preventable condition. With your help, DVT risk can be reduced. Visit preventdvt.org for more information. –By Representative Lois Capps (D-CA) and Representative Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA)
03.13.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers introduced legislation that makes it easier for working mothers and fathers to balance the demands of work and family life. “As a working mother, I know how important it is to find balance between work and family,” McMorris Rodgers said. Current law today prevents working families in the private sector from having the same flexibility given to government workers. This is why I am once again reintroducing the Family-Friendly Workplace Act which removes obstacles that prevent working parents from spending time with their children or taking care of a sick relative.” The “Family-Friendly Workplace Act" (H.R. 933) gives families the option to make choices that work best for them as well as meet the needs of our 21st century workforce. It gives employers the option of offering employees the choice of paid time off in lieu of cash wages for overtime hours worked if the employee prefers to take compensatory time instead of overtime pay. Instead of paid overtime, that employee could choose comp-time and take that time to care for an elderly parent or meet the needs of their kids. An employee would always be entitled to opt for overtime cash wages. “Sixteen years ago, Congress gave families the option of taking time off work to welcome the birth or adoption of a new son or daughter, care for a sick relative or recover from a serious illness,” McMorris Rodgers said. “Yet on the 16th anniversary of the Family and Medical Leave Act, it can still be difficult for working mothers and fathers to balance the demands of work and family. Giving employees more flexibility in their workweek is key to increasing retention as well as attracting great employees that will help increase our country's competitiveness.” Spokane-area businesses and their employees like Telect, KidCentric, Farm Services Credit Union, Provisional Staffing and Inland Northwest Health Services (INHS) already benefit from flexible workplace options. “Especially in today’s economy, businesses are looking at ways to recruit and retain employees without additional costs,” said Amy Johnson, Vice President of Workforce Development and Public Policy at Greater Spokane Incorporated. “The Family Friendly Workplace Act would allow companies to keep highly-skilled, highly-valued workers and still remain competitive in our global economy." Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
03.11.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers and Congressman Doc Hastings recently introduced legislation that will amend the tax code to make it more affordable for companies like Inland Northwest Health Services to purchase new aircraft to transport patients. “Helicopters and airplanes are often the only lifeline during times of emergency for people in Eastern Washington,” McMorris Rodgers said. “It is important to ensure Northwest MedStar and other air ambulance services have the resources and flexibility to ensure rural patients have the lifesaving care they need.” The legislation (H.R. 880) amends the tax code to allow tax-exempt bond financing for airplanes that exclusively provide emergency medical services. The current prohibition on using tax-exempt bonds to purchase airplanes was put in place to prevent the use of these bonds for frivolous purposes, such as corporate jets. Using tax-exempt bonds to purchase a corporate jet or an airplane for any purpose other than providing emergency health care would still be prohibited under the new bill. “Our common sense bill recognizes the unique challenge of providing health care in rural communities,” said Hastings. “This is about making sure patients get the life-saving care they need as quickly as possible, and enhancing air ambulance service is a way to do just that. Northwest MedStar serves patients in Adams, Asotin, Benton, Chelan, Columbia, Ferry, Douglas, Ferry, Franklin, Grant, Garfield, Kittitas, Klickitat, Lincoln, Okanogan, Pend Oreille, Skamania, Spokane, Stevens, Walla Walla, Whitman, and Yakima counties in Washington and in parts of Idaho, Oregon and Montana. “Providing timely and safe air ambulance services to rural communities in Central and Eastern Washington, Eastern Oregon, Idaho and Western Montana is the mission of Northwest MedStar,” said Nancy Vorhees, Chief Operating Officer of Inland Northwest Health Services. “We commend Congressman Doc Hastings and Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers for sponsoring legislation that would assist with the necessary financing needed to provide upgrades to our fleet of airplanes and maintain this high level of services." Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
02.24.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Tonight, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers released the following statement following President Obama’s address to Congress: “Tonight, President Obama outlined his priorities as we address the challenges facing America. No matter the issue, it is important to remember the best solutions come from Main Street, not from Pennsylvania Avenue. “The biggest challenge our nation faces is the economy. Growing and expanding our economy starts with true tax relief that allows middle class families and small businesses to keep more of their hard-earned money, instead of sending it to Washington D.C. It also involves investing in infrastructure and our workforce. “I applaud President Obama’s commitment to reducing our national debt. Just like families and small businesses must balance their budgets and prioritize spending, the federal government must do the same. Now is the time for both parties to back up their promises for fiscal discipline. “In order for America to remain strong and safe and if we are going to attract and train and put in harm’s way America’s finest, our military men and women need the best training and proper equipment to accomplish the mission and build new weapons systems to stay ahead of the threat. “A health care solution to ensure access to quality and affordable health care for every American is necessary. I look forward to working with President Obama to expand health information technology, especially in the rural areas, which will improve health care delivery and save costs. Ultimately, it is also very important that any health care solution protect the treasured doctor patient relationship. “I look forward to championing Eastern Washington energy solutions as part of meeting our national energy needs. Eastern Washington has led in renewable hydro, wind, biomass, and biofuel projects. We also have companies like Itron developing new smart meter technology for increased conservation and Schweitzer Engineering expanding critical smart grid innovation. “I believe the best solutions are developed when Republicans and Democrats work together. I stand ready to work with President Obama and the rest of his party to unleash American ingenuity and the entrepreneurial spirit.” Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
02.06.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers announced her support for new legislation that would make it easier for people across Eastern Washington to receive care from a local hospital—instead of traveling hundreds of miles away for treatment. “When urgent medical assistance is needed, people in Eastern Washington shouldn’t have to face expensive and time consuming transfers from hospital to hospital. Unfortunately, that’s what some patients face as rural Critical Access Hospitals adjust patient occupancies to comply with federal mandates.” In order to be classified a Critical Access Hospital, and receive cost-based reimbursement from Medicare, Critical Access Hospitals must not have more than 25 beds occupied by patients on any given day. To comply, anytime hospitals get close to the 25 bed limit, they may move patients to other hospitals farther away from family and friends. This causes stress on patients and higher costs for hospitals. That is why McMorris Rodgers co-sponsored the Critical Access Hospital Flexibility Act (H.R. 668), introduced by Representative Greg Walden (R-Ore.). The legislation gives Critical Access Hospitals more flexibility in how they account for the 25-patient bed requirement. It allows Critical Access Hospitals to choose between having 25 occupied inpatient beds a day or an annual average of 20 occupied inpatient beds a day. It would also exempt beds occupied by military veterans from the inpatient bed count. One of McMorris Rodgers’ top priorities is increasing access to quality and affordable health care. She is a member of the bipartisan Congressional Rural Health Care Coalition and is working to increase funding for rural health programs, ensuring people can receive care at rural hospitals and supporting new technologies are all crucial to improving rural health care. Since coming to Congress, McMorris Rodgers has also worked to restore funding for critical rural health care programs like emergency devices, geriatric education centers and small hospital improvements. Preserving these programs will help ensure that Critical Access Hospitals and Rural Health Clinics continue to be able to serve rural Eastern Washington. Critical Access Hospitals in Eastern Washington Garfield County Memorial in Pomeroy Dayton General in Dayton Lincoln in Davenport Odessa Memorial in Odessa St. Joseph’s in Chewelah Newport in Newport East Adams Rural in Ritzville North Valley in Tonasket Okanogan-Douglas in Brewster Ferry County Memorial in Republic Mount Carmel in Colville Whitman in Colfax Mid-Valley in Omak Pullman Memorial in Pullman Tri-State Memorial in Clarkston Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
01.29.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers released the following statement after the House of Representatives’ vote on an $825 billion dollar economic stimulus plan. “The economy is the biggest issue facing Eastern Washington families, farmers and small businesses. Americans are concerned about keeping their jobs, their homes and they want Congress to act. “Despite many good and positive aspects of this stimulus bill, I was not able to support today’s bill. It is once again too little, too late. Too little, because only five percent of this legislation builds roads and highways. Too late because most of the package will not take effect until 2010 or later. “Further, this bill still contains too many pork barrel earmarks and wasteful government spending. “Pouring more gas into a broken car isn’t going to get us anywhere, except to the poorhouse. Despite earlier bailouts and rescues, home prices have plummeted and banks are asking for more money. “I don’t support the idea of on-going government programs that just keep growing and growing, which today’s bill fuels. “Instead, we need to invest in infrastructure now – roads, highways, transit, energy generation, exploration and transmission – real innovation and construction that will create jobs. We need to build something of lasting value and stop when we’re done. We need to help home owners, invest in American energy independence and help relieve the tax burden on all tax payers.” Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
01.09.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers issued the following statement regarding the escalating military action in Gaza: “Israel is taking the right and necessary steps to defend its citizens and territory. Israel’s full military response against Hamas’ terrorist attacks is justified, just as the United States would respond to a terrorist attack on its soil. I urge Hamas to stop its attacks on Israel, honor the ceasefire agreement and work to establish a peaceful and long lasting resolution.” Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
01.06.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers began her third term representing Eastern Washington in the 111th U.S. Congress. One of McMorris Rodgers’ top priorities for the next two years includes expanding the economy, growing jobs and increasing access to quality, affordable health care. “Without a doubt, families, farmers and small businesses across Eastern Washington are hurting because of the economy,” McMorris Rodgers said. “I look forward to working with Republicans and Democrats on economic solutions that lower taxes and help businesses thrive—instead of adding more bureaucracy and government programs.” McMorris Rodgers also begins the 111th Congress as the chair of the newly-created Select Committee on Earmark Reform. House Republicans created the committee which will rely on input from House Members and the public to develop an earmark reform proposal by mid-February. “Just as American families and businesses must struggle to prioritize and balance their budgets, Congress should do the same,” McMorris Rodgers said. “Reforming the earmark process is one step toward returning fiscal discipline, transparency and accountability to Washington, D.C.” Eastern Washington will also benefit from McMorris Rodgers’ new leadership position during her third term. Members of the House Republican Conference elected McMorris Rodgers Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference. “As a new mother and second youngest woman Member of Congress, my unique perspective will help our party as we build coalitions, redefine our agenda and develop and spread our party’s message,” McMorris Rodgers said. “If we are to inspire people to join us and rally around our party’s vision for Eastern Washington and America, we as Republicans must begin using new technology to communicate our solutions for the budget and tax policy, energy, health care, education and the environment.” McMorris Rodgers is expected to find out in the coming days which committee assignments she will receive. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Cathy McMorris (R-WA) was sworn-in to office today to represent Washington's 5th Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives. "My number one goal is to listen to, and serve, the people of the 5th district," said McMorris. "In Congress I will work to promote economic opportunities for our state and region; improve access to quality, affordable health care; and safeguard our country." McMorris has pledged to create regional advisory groups throughout the 5th District as one way to stay in touch with the many issues that impact individuals and families. She will also host Town Hall meetings throughout the District. In addition, McMorris announced the appointment of Jack Silzel as Legislative Director. Silzel is a native of the 5th District and served as a Senior Legislative Assistant to Congressman George Nethercutt. Silzel will continue to serve as a liaison with the agriculture and resources community in addition to running the legislative shop. McMorris will maintain three offices in the 5th District in addition to Washington, DC. The addresses for each office can be found below. Washington, D.C. 1708 Longworth House Office BuildingWashington, DC 20515202-225-2006 (phone) Spokane, Washington 10 N. Post StreetSpokane, WA 99201509-353-2374 Colville, Washington 555 South Main StreetColville, WA 99114509-684-3481 Walla Walla, Washington 29 South Palouse StreetWalla Walla, WA 99362509-529-9358 McMorris will keep her home in Deer Lake, Washington and commute to Washington, D.C.
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today made the following statement following President Bush's State of the Union speech: "I applaud the President's bold vision for securing freedom around the world and providing opportunity for all Americans here at home," said Congresswoman McMorris. "The President's message was one of optimism. He addressed a number of issues important to the people of Eastern Washington including the need to reduce regulations so small businesses can create jobs; providing affordable, quality health care and ensuring we have a reliable energy supply.” "I look forward to working with the President and Republicans and Democrats in Congress to continue to focus on issues important to our national and economic security."
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) announced today that the proposal to require power-marketing administrations, including the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA), to charge market-based prices for electricity was not included in the House budget resolution passed today by a vote of 218 to 214. McMorris worked with the Northwest Congressional delegation to get the proposal removed. “Today was a victory for the Pacific Northwest and a truly bi-partisan effort by our delegation to protect our jobs and our regional economy,” said McMorris. “The Budget resolution passed today is our first effort to outline the priorities critical to our country including national security, economic security and deficit reduction.” The House budget resolution is simply a starting point that outlines the funding limits for the federal government. The House version includes funding for our national and homeland security efforts, it restrains overall federal spending and cuts the deficit in half by 2009 – without raising taxes.
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) was appointed by the House Resource Committee Chairman Richard Pombo to lead a taskforce on the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). The goal is to ensure that after 35 years the original intent of NEPA is being implemented. “It’s a real honor to chair this Taskforce and I thank Chairman Pombo for this important appointment,” said McMorris. “The NEPA process has a dramatic impact on our economic growth, transportation system, and the resource based economy of the Pacific Northwest. Through this Taskforce we will listen to all input on how this law is working to ensure the best outcomes for both the environment and our economy.” The aim of the Taskforce is to look at the environmental impact of NEPA and to get public input. The NEPA Taskforce will conduct up to six field hearings across the country to hear testimony on a range of issues from those who are directly affected. The first hearing will be held in Eastern Washington at the end of April. At the conclusion of the hearings, the NEPA Taskforce will issue a report that will discuss their findings and any other appropriate recommendations. NEPA was signed into law in1970 by President Richard Nixon to establish a national environmental policy which directs federal agencies to conduct environmental reviews to consider the potential impacts on the environment when planning projects or issuing permits. No government body has ever thoroughly reviewed NEPA since its inception. For this reason, Chairman Pombo asked the NEPA Taskforce to hold hearings and meetings across the country to hear testimony on a range of issues under NEPA. The field hearings will help taskforce members understand the current impacts of NEPA by hearing directly from the interested and affected parties.
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today introduced H.R. 1138: The Ferry County Rural Hospital Accessibility Act, the bill will allow for a small parcel of Federal land in the Colville National Forest to be given to the Ferry County Public Health District as a site for a new assisted living facility. This is the first piece of legislation McMorris has introduced in the 109th Congress. “One of my top priorities in Congress is to ensure quality, affordable health care for the people of the 5th congressional district,” said McMorris. “This legislation will help establish an assisted living facility in Ferry County and provide for a variety of health care services for this rural community.” The bill has been referred to the Resources Committee and is currently in the Forest and Forest Health Subcommittee. Companion legislation is also being introduced in the Senate. Ferry County residents are over 70 miles from Spokane, making access to medical care more difficult. McMorris has championed healthcare for Eastern Washington and rural communities throughout her tenure in the Washington State legislature, including prime sponsorship of the Critical Access Act which allows rural hospitals to get reimbursements from Medicare and Medicaid. The studies required to purchase federal property, such as archaeological and soil, would cost Ferry County in excess of the property’s fair market value. The bill would give authority to the U.S. Forest Service to transfer ownership of land to Ferry County. This would in turn allow the Ferry County Public Health District to utilize the money it set aside to purchase the federal land for the construction of the assisted living facility.
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) and the House of Representatives voted 272-162 to pass H.R. 8: The Death Tax Repeal Permanency Act of 2005. This was the first piece of legislation co-sponsored by McMorris in the 109th Congress. The bill makes the repeal of the estate tax, commonly referred to as the “Death Tax,” permanent beyond the year 2010. “Growing up on a family farm in Eastern Washington, I have seen the negative effects the Death Tax has on our families and our businesses,” said McMorris. “One of my top priorities in Congress is to grow jobs and expand the economy in the northwest. Repealing the Death Tax will help accomplish that goal, especially for the farmers and small businesses in my district.” The Death Tax has had a huge impact on the economy, costing thousands of jobs each year. Resources that could be used to expand a business or hire new employees are instead used inefficiently to plan for the impact of the Death Tax. By repealing this tax, jobs will be created and many small business owners will be able to add workers to their payrolls. The additional workers will accelerate economic activity and development in the nation – especially in rural areas. “As a member who represents a significant farming sector, I have seen Death Tax destroy family farms. Without a doubt, death taxes hurt our farmers and our ranchers by forcing family farms to sell land, buildings, or equipment needed to operate their business in order to pay for this excessive tax. Some family farmers have had to take out a second mortgage on their home to pay for his tax.” Repeal of this tax will help stimulate growth and raise incomes. This will allow individuals and families to invest more of their money and make financial decisions that are best suited for them.
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris today voted in favor of a comprehensive energy bill that will benefit the Pacific Northwest and will make the United States less dependent on foreign oil. The legislation, which passed the House of Representatives by a vote of 249 to 183, provides incentives for renewable energy, provides for new oil/gas exploration and promotes energy efficiency. “Growing our regional economy is one of my top priorities in Congress,” said McMorris. “Our high energy costs – driven by our dependence on foreign oil – is costing our small businesses and families. The legislation we passed today will help bring down prices while promoting conservation.” One aspect of the Energy Bill that is critical to the Northwest is the authorization of $100 million for increased hydropower production through increased efficiency at existing dams. Our region's economy was built on inexpensive hydro power from our dams and rivers. This bill will modernize the nation’s laws and preserve the natural resources that sustain the economies of the Pacific Northwest. By updating turbines in federal hydropower plants, the amount of power generated could be increased by 5-10% and provide enough additional power to light 350,000 homes. In addition, the bill includes a provision to make funds available through grants for individuals who own or operate a facility that uses biomass (such as trees, woody plants, brush and wood chips) as a raw material to produce electric energy, sensible heat, transportation fuels or substitutes for petroleum-based products to offset the costs incurred to purchase biomass for use by such facility. The bill will now be sent to the Senate for consideration.
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris testified today at the House Resources Water and Power Subcommittee Hearing on how the Endangered Species Act has impacted relicensing projects in the 5th district. She specifically spoke about the effect it has had on the hydroelectric relicensing project at Box Canyon. “We need to protect citizens of Pend Oreille and promote economic growth for the region,” said McMorris. “Pend Oreille County is dependent on low energy rates.” The Box Canyon Project is located on the Pend Oreille River and generates up to 60 megawatts of power a year. The Public Utilities District applied to the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to relicense the project in 2000, and that process is still underway. The Federal government has recommended that this small project invest more than $70 million for fish ladders and habitat restoration for Bull Trout, which scientific research has shown will little to no effect. “While the environmental impacts associated with this small project are modest, the impact on the economy is great. The largest employer in Pend Oreille County relies on the power generated by Box Canyon, but because the environmental requirements presently under consideration could render this project uneconomical, the people of the county face not only the prospect of doubling rates, but job losses as well.” In 2001, FERC reviewed 228 hydro licensing projects and ascertained that they average cost of Protection, Mitigation, and Enhancement (PM&E’s) dollars nationwide is $212 per kilowatt. The Box Canyon Project’s PM&E’s are $3,100 per kilowatt, 14 times the national average. “A responsibility does exist to care for the impacted resource. However, when unjustifiable science is used as a pretext to impose huge costs for questionable benefits, particularly when such costs are squarely on the backs of ratepayers in rural America, we must ask these tough questions related to the Act’s implementation.”
01.04.2009	(Washington, DC) — Congresswoman Cathy McMorris today was named by Speaker Hastert to be part of the House Republican High-Tech Working Group led by Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA). The group announced its new Members and outlined its priorities for the 109th Congress. “One of my goals in Congress is to promote economic growth, which includes supporting the cutting edge work of high-tech companies,” said McMorris. “It is important to support these companies by creating policies that promote economic growth, remove barriers to innovation, and improve our quality of life.” The 5th district has a growing technology base focused on the defense industry and healthcare. Technology is a key driver in the region’s economy, helping create jobs and enabling people to work smarter and more efficiently. In 2004, close to $100 million was invested in regional technology companies. “Technology is playing a vital role in both our national security and our economic security. My top priorities include encouraging broadband development and deployment, making the R&D tax credit permanent, keeping the Internet free of new taxes and regulations, and supporting efforts to use technology to improve our health care system.” House Republican High-Tech Working Group’s Priorities for the 109th Congress Promoting our Economic Growth Ensuring Employee Stock Ownership Remains Viable R&D Tax Credit Skilled Workforce Reduce Trade Barriers Ensuring Fairness in Government IT Acquisitions Removing Barriers to Innovation Class Action Fairness Patent Reform Protect Intellectual Property from Digital Piracy Spectrum Enhancement Improving our Quality of Life Spyware and Phishing Promote Health IT Promote Broadband
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris announced today that Fairchild Air Force Base “won round one” when the Department of Defense (DoD) recommended keeping Fairchild Air Force Base open. Fairchild was not included on the DoD’s list of bases recommended for closure. McMorris is a Member of the House Armed Services Committee which has jurisdiction over the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process. “Protecting and expanding Fairchild has been a top priority for my office,” said McMorris. “I am extremely pleased that the DoD has recognized the strategic role that Fairchild plays in our national security efforts. Our congressional delegation, Governor Gregoire and the Forward Fairchild group have all worked tirelessly to highlight the base’s military value and joint training capabilities. This is only the first round and together, we will work to ensure that Fairchild Air Force Base remains off the closure list.” Fairchild plays a vital role in fighting terrorism by providing air-refueling to the Air Force, Navy and Marine Corps during joint operations. Fairchild houses the only active duty air-refueling wing on the West Coast; and since the attacks in September 2001, Fairchild’s tanker mission has expanded to meet an important aspect on the Global War on Terror. Over 107 million gallons of fuel have been loaded off and more than 53 million gallons of fuel have been consumed. “The BRAC announcement secures the future of Fairchild Air Force Base in our community,” said Rich Hadley, President & CEO of the Spokane Regional Chamber of Commerce. “The same community spirit and assertiveness exhibited in Forward Fairchild to keep the base off the list will now be directed on growing its missions. We take our hats off to the men and women stationed at Fairchild who execute those missions in an exemplary manner and make the base a strategic asset in our war on terrorism,” Hadley added. “Fairchild is key to our national security and our economic security,” continued McMorris. “With ample amount of land and air space available, and the ability to provide joint operations, I believe that Fairchild is strategically positioned to grow and expand on the already critical role it plays in our national security.” The nine Members of the Base Realignment and Closure Commission (BRAC), led by Chairman Anthony Principi, will now begin to examine and evaluate the list of bases recommended for closure. Under the BRAC rules, bases can be removed and added to the list, although in order for a base to be added, seven of the nine appointed commissioners would have to vote to add it. On September 8th, the Commission will send its list to the President. The President will then have until September 23rd to approve or disapprove the list (if the President disapproves, list may be revised by Commission by October 20, 2005). The President must certify the Commission list and submit it to Congress for an up or down vote by November 7th. Congress will have 45 days to pass a motion of disapproval or the Commission’s list becomes law.
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (R-WA) today announced that $750,000 in funding for Gonzaga University was included in H.R. 2419, the Energy and Water Appropriations bill that passed the House of Representatives. The funding will go towards an electric utility transmission and distribution line engineering program at the University. This one of a kind program will offer a Master of Science degree as well as certification for working professionals in engineering. A reliable electricity grid is vital to our nation, and region’s, economic security and national security,” said McMorris. “This funding will help build a workforce of skilled technicians and professionals to design and operate 21st Century electrical power grids – benefiting our region and our nation.” “We are grateful for Representative McMorris’ leadership in helping secure federal funding for Gonzaga’s new transmission and distribution engineering program,” said Robert J. Spitzer, President of Gonzaga University. “She clearly understands the urgent and growing need for skilled and certified utility engineers in our country to design the power grid of tomorrow. We appreciate her recognition of the important role that Eastern Washington plays in the energy arena, and her efforts to win support in the House of Representatives for the Gonzaga program.”
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Recognizing the important role agriculture plays in Eastern Washington’s economy, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (R-WA) fought to secure funding in H.R. 2744, the Fiscal Year 2006 Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act that will help fund a state of the art agriculture research facility at Washington State University. McMorris also worked to fund research on a variety of crops important to the Pacific Northwest as well as human and health safety programs. “Washington State is one of the top agriculture producers in the country,” said McMorris. “Throughout Eastern Washington, our farmers and ranchers are contributing to the world’s food supply and helping our regional economy. The funding included in the Agriculture Appropriations bill will help ensure Washington’s agriculture industry remains strong.” Agriculture is a $5.5 billion industry in Washington State. In total, this bill provides nearly $17 billion in total discretionary funding for agriculture and related programs. This level represents an increase of $93 million over the President’s request. In addition to specific Eastern Washington projects, the money will be used for Food Safety and Inspection; Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service; Food and Drug Administration; and Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy. Key Eastern Washington appropriations were made for the following programs under the bill: Agriculture Research Service Facility (ARS) to replace Johnson Hall, Washington State University ($3,625,000.00): The funding will provide state of the art research facility for scientists at the ARS research facility at Johnson Hall on the campus of Washington State University. The USDA Agricultural Research Service and Washington State University have a long and effective research partnership with scientists collaborating on national and regional projects, jointly training students, and contributing to the economic productivity and profitability of agriculture in the Pacific Northwest. “The current ARS scientists working at WSU are working in inadequate facilities,” said McMorris. “Updating this facility will strengthen the federal and state partnership in plant sciences and contribute to improvements in laboratories and equipment underpinning this research. Bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE or often referred to as “Mad Cow Disease”) ($1,000,000): The Committee considers research on BSE as essential if regulatory agencies are to develop policies and control programs based on the best available science. ARS is directed to implement an integrated BSE program in pathogenesis, diagnostics, and intervention. The Committee provides an increase of Pullman, Washington, $1,000,000 for research to be conducted in Pullman at Washington State University. Food and Nutrition Programs: H.R. 2744 ensured proper funding for domestic nutrition assistance programs, including Food Stamp, School Lunch, School Breakfast, and Child and Adult Care Food programs, and the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children. Fulfilling Commitments to Important Food and Nutrition Programs: Child Nutrition Programs (Mandatory) are funded at $12.4 billion, $630 million above last year and $4 million below the President’s request. Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) is funded at $5.3 billion, $22 million above last year and $47 million above the recently revised budget estimate. Food Stamp Program (Mandatory) is funded at $40.7 billion, a 15.8% increase of $5.6 billion above last year and the same as the President’s request. Food for Peace Program (PL 480) Title II is funded at a program level of $1.1 billion, a decrease of $66 million below last year and $222 million above the President’s request. In addition, $240 million was provided in the recently enacted war supplemental. Commodity Supplemental Food Program (CSFP) is funded at $108 million, an increase of $1 million above last year and the President’s request. The appropriations are part of the overall Fiscal Year 2006 Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2006. McMorris voted in favor of the appropriation package which passed the House of Representatives today by a bipartisan vote of 408 to 18. The bill will need to be reconciled with the Senate version of the Agriculture and Rural Development Appropriations bill after it passes the United States Senate. McMorris will work to ensure the money will be included in the final bill agreed upon by the House and Senate.
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (R-WA) made the following statement today in response to Judge Redden’s ruling. If the decision stands, it would cost rate payers in the Northwest $67 million without guaranteeing any fish will be saved. The Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) estimates that rates would increase by 4 to 5 percent. “This is the wrong decision that ignores the progress we have made in fish recovery. This ruling will cost jobs, stifle our economy and send a $67 million bill to rate payers throughout the Northwest. We wouldn’t let a judge dictate how we use our federal highway system and we shouldn’t let one tell us how to use our river systems. I hope that the federal agencies will challenge this ruling and that the Northwest delegation will come together to get these decisions out of the courts and back to the local communities.” According to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, from 2000 to 2004, the number of all listed stocks in the Snake River increased. Last fall, almost 15,000 Snake River fall Chinook returned past the dams – over 300% more than the 3,600 that returned in 2000. Last year, for the fourth straight year, the number of Upper Columbia Steelhead that returned has been more than double the 7,796 that returned in 2000. McMorris joined with other Northwest Members in sending a letter to the Administration asking that the Redden decision be appealed. McMorris is a member of the House Resources Committee.
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA -05) announced today that Spokane was one of 24 cities to be designated as a Preserve America Community. Secretary of the Interior Gale Norton joined Preserve America and the Congressional Historic Preservation Caucus, of which McMorris is a member, to honor the cities. “All the people of Spokane can take pride in this national recognition,” said McMorris. “I commend the city for its efforts to grow the economy while still maintaining its historical roots. Through the revitalization of downtown and the restoration of key historical landmarks, Spokane has grown into a wonderful community that has an incredible amount to offer both residents and visitors.” Spokane is recognized for having 22 National Register Historic Districts, and many individually listed properties. The Davenport Hotel, Steam Plant Grill and old city hall are examples of how historic landmarks are restored to become centers for high quality accommodations, restaurants and shopping. In 2001 restoration was completed on the Tudor Revival Campbell House complex that today operates as a house museum interpreting life at the turn of the 20th century. Renovation is also underway to turn the 1931 Fox Theater into a regional performing arts center. Designation as a Preserve America Community provides national recognition for what communities have already achieved, while also serving as a way to enhance the contribution of tourism and other economic development strategies to their economies. “Through the vision and leadership of First Lady Laura Bush, Honorary Chair of Preserve America, communities across America are finding new ways to celebrate their history and tell their stories,” said Secretary Norton. “Each community has its own story. These stories present opportunities—opportunities for heritage tourism, education, and historic preservation. Through Preserve America, these stories come alive.” Preserve America is a White House initiative to encourage and support community efforts for the preservation and enjoyment of our priceless cultural and natural heritage. The goals of the initiative include a greater shared knowledge about the Nation’s past, strengthened regional identities and local pride, increased local participation in preserving the country’s cultural and natural heritage assets, and support for the economic vitality of our communities. For more information visit this website.
01.04.2009	(Washington, DC) — Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) showed her continued commitment to American’s veterans by taking key steps to guarantee they are receiving the best care possible. Recent actions include passage of the Veteran’s Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act, voting to provide additional funds for veteran health care programs, and sending a letter to Veteran Affairs Secretary Jim Nicholson regarding the Veterans health care budget shortfalls. “Now more then ever, our veterans need to know that their government stands behind them because they give so much,” said McMorris. “We have an obligation to ensure that they have the highest quality of life possible when they come home; they deserve nothing less.” McMorris voted in favor of H.R. 1220, the Veterans’ Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2005. The legislation provides a cost-of-living adjustment to disability compensation rates for veterans, authorizes a two-year project for improvement of business practices in the Veterans Health Administration, and permanently authorizes six Parkinson’s disease Research Educational and Clinical Centers. On June 30th McMorris and fellow Congressional members voted unanimously to provide $975 million in additional funds for veteran health care programs to make up for the projected $1 billion shortfall recently announced by the Veterans Affairs Department. “Veterans have provided a great service to our country and we have an obligation to see that they are getting proper care. With more and more of our service men and women returning from Iraq and Afghanistan, we need to make sure they have access to quality health care.” This past week McMorris, along with members of the Washington delegation, sent a letter to Secretary Nicholson concerning the Veterans health care budget shortfall. In the letter the members offer to work with the Department of Veterans Affairs to examine the situation and install better practices to prevent this from happening in the future.
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) joined 122 Members of Congress in a bipartisan effort designed to keep a tight reign on government spending. McMorris today co-sponsored the Balanced Budget Amendment (H.J.Res.58) that would make it unconstitutional to run a deficit, except in the time of war or by a three-fifths vote of Congress. “One of my top priorities is to strengthen our economy and we need to restore fiscal discipline to Washington D.C.,” said McMorris. “The federal government should use tax dollars wisely and we need to make tough budget decisions so our child and grandchildren inherit freedom and security, not an enormous national debt.” The text is identical to the Balanced Budget Amendment to the Constitution approved by the House of Representatives in 1995, as part of the “Contract with America,” but which failed twice in the U.S. Senate by a single vote. The current deficit is an enormous drain on the American economy. The passage of such an amendment would free up billions of dollars the federal government pays each year in interest payments. This money could be used to reinvest in the economy via job creation and lowering taxes. The amendment does make an exception for deficit spending in times of national emergency. A Constitutional amendment requires a two-thirds majority of both Houses of Congress and ratification by three-fourths of the states. If passed, the measure would take effect in the first fiscal year beginning after December 31, 2010 or two years after ratification by the states, whichever is later.
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) In Eastern Washington, our history is linked to free trade. In 1810, a fur-trading post called the Spokane House was established. It served for 16 years as the headquarters for fur trade between the Rockies and the Cascades and was a major commercial center. Free trade helped develop our region and continues to play a large role in our present and future economic well-being. In order for our entrepreneurs to be successful, they need access to capital, lower taxes, lower regulatory burdens, and a skilled workforce. They also need open markets since over 90 percent of consumers are now outside the United States. Today in Washington State, one in every three jobs is linked to trade. For 13 years, I worked on a small family farm and fruit stand where we sold peaches, cherries and apples to our neighbors. Today our farmers provide food not just to our neighboring communities but to our neighboring countries. Today, I am announcing my support for the Central American Free Trade Agreement. This was not an easy decision and one made only after listening to the concerns of many people throughout Eastern Washington whose input I value. All across this region – from Omak to Asotin – I have heard from farmers, ranchers, manufacturers, high-tech companies, small business owners and labor groups about the impacts, both positive and negative, that this agreement will have on Eastern Washington. Some of my longtime supporters and friends – even my own family – have shared with me their concerns regarding this agreement. Some of their apprehensions include a loss of jobs at home, and lower product standards for goods being imported into our country. Yet I have also heard from people whose jobs and livelihood depend on open markets and free trade. In 2003, our state’s exports exceeded $34 billion. Since 2000, the amount of Washington products shipped to Central America has increased nearly 250 percent. Transportation and aeronautics is our top export, followed by agricultural products, software, electronic and scientific equipment, and wood products. The ultimate goal of this trade agreement is to level the playing field. Right now Central American countries ship their products into the U.S. without additional costs. This agreement would eliminate tariffs, which are essentially taxes for shipping products to another country, on more than 80 percent of U.S. exports. Remaining tariffs will be phased out over the next 10 years. It will also benefit small and medium sized businesses, which are responsible for 35 percent of all U.S. exports to the region. Here in Eastern Washington, we have many businesses with customers in Central American countries who will benefit from this trade agreement: Pearson Packaging Systems Inc., the West Plains-based maker of packaging machinery, plans to enter the CAFTA market within the next 18 months. Itron in Spokane is a high-tech company specializing in meter readers with 25 percent of their international sales in the CAFTA region. Without this agreement they will continue to be at a disadvantage in competing with European non-tariff countries. StarrProducts, a specialty tools with an office in Davenport, has told me that this will help them sell more products because it will lower tariffs on their imports into Central America. Local agricultural producers will benefit from this trade agreement. Washington is the ninth largest state agricultural exporter to the Central American market and exports are expected to double under this agreement. Our wheat growers, apple producers and potato industry believe this agreement is crucial for our economic growth. This decision is not just about our economic security – it’s also about our national security. In the 1980’s, Central America was characterized by civil war, chaos, dictators and Communist insurgents. Today, this region of young democracies needs our support. Free and healthy economies foster peaceful, democratic societies. In 1945 only 20 democracies operated under the rule of law. Today, there are almost 120 democracies, with another 30 countries in the process of democratizing. A stable Central America is key in our long-term fight against oppression. Finally, ensuring and upholding our nation’s sovereignty is above all the most important value of who we are as Americans. I vow to uphold our sovereignty and never take a vote that will violate its preservation. This agreement remains protective of our federal system of shared power and ensures that federal, state and local agencies are the only ones with the authority to change our laws. In Congress, proposals are complicated when you consider the impacts to our region, our country and our position around the world. In these first months, I have taken over 400 votes, and everyone can probably find a vote where they disagree with me. There is no such thing as a perfect bill. In fact, many times you have to decide if something is 51 percent good or 51 percent bad. Despite the concerns raised, I ultimately believe it will bring new opportunities, job creation and greater security for Eastern Washington and America.
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris issued the following statement regarding the 9th Circuit Court’s Decision to uphold Judge Redden’s ruling requiring spill at Snake and lower Columbia River dams: “It is unfortunate that the courts do not recognize the impact this will have on the local communities and how this decision will stifle commerce and cost jobs. This decision will cost rate payers in the Northwest $67 million and the Bonneville Power Administration estimates that rates will increase by four to five percent. This ruling ignores progress that has been made to allow for both fish recovery and the use of dams. We need to find a more balanced approach that preserves our environment while making sure that our river system is able to be used for transportation and recreation. It is important that we protect the economic interests of the region. Dams have a huge impact on our economy and are important for irrigation, flood control, and low cost renewable electricity. This is an important issue that should be the decision of the local communities directly impacted, not an appeals court in California.”
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) voted in support of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, which will now be sent to the President to be signed into law. McMorris is a member of the Resources Committee and has worked to pass a comprehensive energy plan that lowers our dependency on foreign oil, lowers energy prices for consumers in the Pacific Northwest, and expands the development of renewable energy projects. “High energy costs hurt our ability to expand our economy and create jobs,” said McMorris. “This comprehensive energy plan will help lower energy prices, create new jobs, and promote greater energy conservation and efficiency.” The Energy Policy Act (H.R. 6) includes provisions and tax incentives for expanding renewable energy projects. The bill directly impacts the Northwest by increasing studies on hydropower from current water flow. By updating turbines in federal hydropower plants, the amount of power generated could be increased by 5-10% and provide enough additional power to light 350,000 homes. The bill also extends current tax credits for production of biodiesel fuel through 2008. McMorris is currently a co-sponsor of H.R. 2496, a bill to extend tax incentives for the use of biodiesel through 2010. “Creating incentives for biodiesel production in Eastern Washington will strengthen our economy, assist local farmers and help promote the use of alternative fuel,” said McMorris. “Biodiesel will create a new market for Washington grown crops and the increase in demand will lead to economic gains for the farming community.” The energy plan also includes language to streamline the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) process. McMorris is currently the chairwoman of a bipartisan taskforce that is holding hearings around the country to gain a better understanding of how NEPA is being implemented.
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today voted in support H.R. 3 The Transportation Equity Act, which will now be sent to the President to be signed into law. Based on combined efforts of the House and the Senate, the bill includes funding for nine transportation projects in Eastern Washington. The bill reauthorizes the federal highway, public transportation, highway safety, and motor carrier safety programs for six years, from fiscal year 2004 -2009. The projects include: U.S. 395 North Spokane Corridor – $6,640,000 U.S. 12 Burbank to Walla Walla Lane Widening – $5,940,000 I-90, Spokane to Idaho State Line Widening – $9,940,000 Fleshman Way/State Route 129 Interchange Improvements Project – $840,000 Bridging the Valley: Development of highway-rail crossings in Spokane County, WA and Kootenai County, ID – $800,000 Spokane Advanced Traffic Management System Expansion – $440,000 Riverside Avenue Improvements, Spokane – $2,500,000 Toroda Creek Road Improvements, Ferry County – $1,650,000 Toroda Creek Road Improvements, Okanogan County – $850,000 "Our transportation infrastructure is vital to the economic stability and growth of our region,¨ said McMorris. "Improving the flow of traffic, expanding our highways to transport products grown and made in our region, and providing better conditions to make our roads safer are all benefits of these projects." State Transportation Secretary Doug MacDonald commented that "Congresswoman McMorris' has spent many hours working with community and business leaders across eastern Washington to identify and prioritize funding for projects that will make a positive difference for travelers. These projects are also critical to boosting Washington's economic development by keeping our goods and products moving efficiently to markets in the state and across the nation." Community leaders throughout the region have been anxiously awaiting this reauthorization bill and believe it will help ensure economic growth.
01.04.2009	(Washington, DC) –Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) voted on key legislation last week that will help ensure access to quality health care for small businesses by reducing medical malpractice suits and making it easier for small business to provide health insurance. On Wednesday the House passed H.R. 525 the Small Business Health Fairness Act (H.R. 525). The bill significantly expands access to health coverage for many of the 45 million Americans who are uninsured. The bill allows small businesses to band together through association health plans (AHPs) and purchase quality health care at a lower cost for their workers. McMorris is a member of the Education and Workforce Committee and helped pass this legislation in committee. “One of my top priorities is to make sure individuals and small businesses have access to quality, affordable health care,” said McMorris. “The number of Americans without health insurance is one of the biggest concerns in health care today. Many small business owners can’t afford to provide health insurance to works because of rising premium costs.” AHPs will make health insurance more affordable for small business through reduced premiums. Congressional Budget Office has estimated that small businesses obtaining insurance through AHPs should experience premium reductions of 13% on average and up to 25%. “I believe that small businesses are the main economic driver in our region and country. This bill will allow small businesses to enjoy greater bargaining power, economies of scale, and administrative efficiencies.” Last week the House also passed H.R. 5: The Health Efficient, Accessible, Low Cost, Timely Health Care (HEALTH) Act of 2005. The bill addresses the need for medical liability reform due to sky-rocketing medical liability costs. The Health Act places a limit of three years that a plaintiff may file a health care liability action. It also ensures that a party will only be liable for their own share of the damages and places reasonable limits on punitive damages to make the punishment fit the offense. McMorris, a co-sponsor of the bill, spoke on the House floor in favor of the Health Act, detailing how increased medical liability insurance costs are creating a health care personnel shortage in Eastern Washington. “I have heard from desperate doctors and health care providers that frivolous lawsuits are increasing costs to patient and driving doctors out of businesses. In areas such as Odessa, Republic and Davenport, there are no OB-GYNs and pregnant women must travel over an hour for care. It is also becoming impossible to recruit and retain specialists such as neurosurgeons and cardiologists. This is unacceptable for 21st Century health care. “The Health Act will bring common sense reform to outrageous liability rates and will protect patients’ access to quality affordable health care. It is critical that we stop America’s run-away medial malpractice premiums and protect health care for our citizens.” These bills will now go to the US Senate for consideration.
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) The House of Representatives’ Subcommittee on Forests and Forest Health will be holding a hearing in Colville, WA on Issues Affecting Forest Health and Management in Eastern Washington on Monday, August 29, 2005 at 9:30 a.m. Subcommittee Chairman Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR) and Rep. Cathy McMorris (R-WA) will hear testimony on wildfire, forest health, tribal lands, and post-fire reforestation and restoration. “Listening and learning from this hearing will help develop policy to support those who manage our forests, make their living on the land, and enjoy recreating within our national treasures,” said Subcommittee Chairman Walden. “I am working closely with Congresswoman McMorris and other Forest Subcommittee members as we continue to examine the issue of post-catastrophic events — windstorm, bug infestation, ice storms and wildfire. Like we did under the Healthy Forests Restoration Act, I hope to provide the tools to public land managers, enabling them to recover forests more quickly after a catastrophic event and to protect communities, water, and wildlife. As a native Oregonian, I like our forests green, not black.” The Subcommittee will examine a number of issues including implementation of the Healthy Forests Initiative on National Forest System lands. Currently, harvest levels on the Colville National Forest are only half of the annual mortality and less than ten percent of annual growth, leaving a large number of dead or dying trees susceptible to disease, insect infestation, and future wildfires. “Natural resources, especially timber, play an important role in our region’s economy,” said Congresswoman McMorris. “We hope to be able to address a variety of issues that will enable us to maintain our forests. The hearing will also provide an opportunity to discuss some of the problems caused by the recent fires in Eastern Washington, such as funding and salvage challenges.” In contrast to National Forest System lands, the Colville Confederated Tribes have implemented an aggressive and proactive management plan for their tribal forest lands, harvesting approximately 81 million board feet of timber last year. The result is a more resilient and biologically diverse forest than on neighboring Forest Service lands. The hearing will examine these differences and analyze the reasons behind them. “I look forward to hearing from tribal leaders about their successful efforts to protect and manage their forests,” said House Resources Committee Chairman Richard W. Pombo (R-CA). “I also encourage tribes and the Forest Service to utilize the Tribal Forests Protection Act which allows tribes to work with federal agencies to protect both national forest and tribal lands on a more expanded and cooperative basis.” Members will also explore issues affecting post-fire rehabilitation. Immediate restoration work on forest land following catastrophic events is often essential if reforestation and rehabilitation is to be successful. Unfortunately, however, legal and procedural delays have become the norm, leaving vast areas of national forest land barren of trees for decades. The resulting impacts on wildlife habitat, soil stability and water quality have been devastating. Quickly moving to capture the value of some of the dead trees following fire can help fund rehabilitation of the burned area and greatly contribute to successful long-term reforestation. WHO: Subcommittee on Forests and Forest Health, U.S. House of Representatives Rep. Greg Walden (R-OR), Rep. Cathy McMorris (R-WA) WHAT: Hearing on Issues Affecting Forest Health and Management in Eastern Washington – National Forests, Tribal Lands, and Local Communities WHEN: 9:30 a.m., Monday, August 29, 2005 WHERE: Community Colleges of Spokane, Colville Campus 985 Elm Street, Colville, WA
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA -05) was joined this week by Education and Workforce Committee Chairman John Boehner in hosting two meetings to focus on the workforce and higher education needs of Eastern Washington. “In order to facilitate economic growth, we need to work collaboratively with the education and business communities to ensure that students are receiving the necessary education, skills and training to be successful,” said McMorris. “These meetings were about listening to the community and learning what we can do at the federal level to help meet the needs of our students and workforce.” Local companies were invited to participate in a roundtable discussion with the Congresswoman and the Chairman on how to create a 21st century workforce. The group focused on the continued importance of vocational training and how to make sure students receive the necessary work skills for entry into Eastern Washington’s workforce. The meetings also provided a unique opportunity for community leaders to hear from the Chairman about related legislation and accomplishments of Congress. “Already this year we’ve passed comprehensive pension protection legislation to protect the interests of workers, retirees, and taxpayers, and now we’re focused on expanding college access for low- and middle-income students,” said Chairman Boehner. “We’re providing meaningful reforms that will expand college access, prioritize the needs of students, and protect American taxpayers.” University and college presidents from across the state met for a Higher Education Luncheon at Whitworth College on Tuesday. The main topic of the meeting was H.R. 609: the College Access and Opportunity Act, which has passed committee and will be brought to the House floor for vote this fall. The bill will reform the Higher Education Act, established in 1995, through the principles of affordability, access, accountability, and quality, so that federal resources are focused on expanding college access for low and middle-income students.
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris issued the following statement in honor of the four-year anniversary of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks: “Each year at this time, we come together to remember those who lost their lives in a senseless act of terror committed on our soil. For thousands of Americans, the victims of September 11 were our neighbors and our friends. Many experienced a direct loss of a loved one, and together we all share in their grief. “ “As we reflect on September 11, our hearts and prayers go out to all those who lost family members and loved ones. Their absence continues to be felt – not just on anniversaries but daily. We also express gratitude to the many heroes who selflessly gave their lives to preserve others. As our men and women in uniform confront terrorism on all corners of the globe, we are grateful for their sacrifices that help secure our freedom here at home.”
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) issued the following statement today in response to the Capital Asset Realignment for Enhanced Services (CARES) Commission’s Business Plan Study for the Walla Walla VA Medical Center: “My top priority is ensuring that our veterans receive the best health care possible. It is in the best interest of the veterans that the VA Medical Center remains in Walla Walla and I am continuing to work with other members of the Northwest delegation to find a solution that will adequately address the health care needs of our veterans.” “The recommendations released today by the CARES Commission to the Local Advisory Panel provide us with options for the future of the Walla Walla VA Medical Center. I want to spend the next few months looking into all the options to determine how we can best serve the veterans in the region. I encourage the public to provide the Commission with feedback on the best options available for the facility on its website at www.va.gov/cares.”
01.04.2009	(Washington, DC) –Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) voted today in favor of H.R. 3132 the Children’s Safety Act of 2005. McMorris is a co-sponsor of this legislation to enforce stricter penalties for registered sex offenders. “Our community has experienced first hand the tragedy of having our children fall prey to sexual predators,” said McMorris. “One of my top priorities is to keep our communities and nation safe. This legislation provides a comprehensive plan that will increase the safety and security of children in their homes, yards, and neighborhoods. Parents must have opportunity to know of potential dangers in their community and we must impose tougher registration requirements for child sex offenders.” Nearly 100,000 sex offenders remain unregistered, and are moving freely about the country. Most recent high-profile abductions crimes were all committed by previously-convicted sex offenders. According to the US Department of Justice, sex offenders are four times more likely to be rearrested and child molesters on average only serve 43 percent of their sentence. “In the Washington State Legislature I supported legislation to impose stricter sex offender penalties and I am pleased to be able to do the same at the federal level. With the passage of this bill, mothers and fathers can feel more secure knowing that their children are safer.” In order to strengthen the security of families across the country, the Children’s Safety Act: Expands coverage of sex offenders to include any felony sex offense and misdemeanor sex offenses Requires sex offenders to register prior to release from prison Increases the duration of required periodic registration Authorizes the creation of up to ten demonstration programs for electronic monitoring of sex offenders Ensures mandatory-minimum punishment for violent and sexual crimes against children
01.04.2009	(Washington, DC) –Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) announced today that the Housing Authority of the City of Walla Walla was awarded a $400,000 grant through the Department of Veterans Affairs Health Care for Homeless Veterans program. The funding will go towards the construction of transitional housing that will provide 14 beds for homeless veterans. “One of my top priorities it provide quality, affordable care to those who have served our country,” said McMorris, “These brave individuals helped protect our country and this grant will provide the necessary help and assistance to homeless veterans. We have an obligation to ensure that they have the highest quality of life possible when they come home; they deserve nothing less.” A Notice of Funding Availability (NOFA) was published on April 1, 2005 announcing the VA’s goal to award funds in the form of capital grants to aid homeless veterans. The objectives of the grant included funding for the acquisition, renovation, or construction of facilities to provide housing or supportive services for homeless veterans, as well as purchase vans to help transport the veterans. The Housing Authority of the City of Walla Walla will be constructing buildings at 1020 W. Chestnut and 918 W. Willow Street, which will provide room for 14 beds. McMorris has taken numerous steps to ensure that veterans receive the care they deserve. She has toured the VA facility in Walla Walla, held meetings with the CARES Commission and Local Advisory Panel, contacted Veteran Affairs Secretary Jim Nicholson and other administration officials regarding the Veterans health care budget shortfalls, and is working with members of the northwest delegation to retain VA healthcare facilities.
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris and Congressman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), Chairman of the House Agriculture Committee, will hold an agriculture forum to discuss the important issues facing the future of agriculture and farmers in Eastern Washington. The forum will be held on Saturday, October 1st from 12:30 – 2 pm at the Ritzville American Legion 538 W. Broadway, Ritzville, WA 99169. “Agriculture is vital to the economic stability of Eastern Washington and it is one of my top priorities to help our farmers and ranchers with the challenges they are facing,” said McMorris. “I understand there are many concerns about county loan rates, transportation costs, fertilizer costs, water reliability, the upcoming Farm Bill, and fuel costs. I want to hear, first hand, about the challenges facing our agriculture community and encourage people to take this opportunity to share their thoughts with House Agriculture Chairman Goodlatte.” Since taking office, McMorris has taken key steps to support the agriculture community in Eastern Washington: Passed the permanent repeal of the death tax Chairing a 20-member House Task Force on National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) Supported the Central American Free Trade Agreement Sponsored legislation to extend tax incentives for bio-diesel Sponsored legislation to help beginning farmers and ranchers Sponsored and supported Endangered Species Act legislation Secured funding for Agriculture Research Service Building at WSU in Pullman Secured funding for Competitiveness of Agriculture Products
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) announced today that The National Energy Supply Diversification and Disruption Prevention Act was passed today by the Resources Committee. The legislation will increase, diversify, and facilitate the production and delivery of reliable and affordable energy supplies to American consumers. “The Energy Act of 2005 was a good first step in solving our energy problem, but more needs to be done,” said McMorris. “Our farmers in Eastern Washington are experiencing tough economic times and I continue to hear how high energy costs are hurting their bottom line and their ability to compete. It is clear that action needs to be taken and relief must be provided. We cannot afford to have our energy system be so vulnerable and this bill helps address the problem by focusing on diversification of our fuel and energy production.” McMorris spoke at the hearing on the option of increasing hydro-power generation on the Columbia-Snake River System by stopping the release of water through spillways where the Governor of the State has declared an emergency drought situation. By allowing water to be spilled, the generation of electricity is being forgone. Allowing this increase of hydro-power generation would greatly benefit the Pacific Northwest, which has been dramatically affected by the rising cost of energy. “This issue is very important to the Pacific Northwest. The ruling of Judge Redden that requires agencies to provide for summer spills over dams in the Columbia-Snake River systems will cost jobs, stifle our economy, and send a $67 million bill to rate payers throughout the Northwest. With energy costs already so high, we must be looking at every option available for relief.” The National Energy Supply Diversification and Disruption Prevention Act encourages diversity of fuels to meet U.S. energy needs by facilitating the production of not only oil and natural gas, but also renewable and alternative energy resources such as geothermal and biomass from federal lands. It also seeks to encourage responsible domestic investment and the creation of jobs, coastal states self-determination and just compensation, as well as the assurance of domestic energy and economic security for the future.
01.04.2009	(Washington, DC) –Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) and the House of Representatives voted in favor today of the Threatened Endangered Species Act (TESRA) of 2005 (H.R. 3824). McMorris, a member of the Resources Committee, is an original co-sponsor of the bill that will improve and update the Endangered Species Act of 1973. “After 30 years we finally have a commonsense solution that will facilitate the relationship between protecting endangered species and using our natural resources and land,” said McMorris. “It is time to move away from burdensome regulations, lawsuits and punitive settlements and focus on using objective scientific standards, creating stronger roles for local and state governments, and increasing accountability.” Originally adopted under the best intentions, ESA has failed to achieve its purpose of recovering endangered species to healthy and sustainable populations. Less than 1 percent (10 of roughly 1300 species) have recovered in the Act’s history. Yet at the same time it has been a source of conflict for communities and local landowners, often leading to bureaucratic red tape and lawsuits. “ESA has had a huge impact on the river systems in the Pacific Northwest. Judge Redden’s decision regarding the Snake River Dams and the relicensing of Box Canyon in Pend Oreille County are two local examples of how the ESA is stifling economic growth, while not even providing increased protection of the fish. In the case of Box Canyon the PUD was forced to put in fish ladders for fish that were never even in the river. It is these types of ridiculous demands that we hope this bill will fix.” TESRA fixes the long-outstanding problems of the Endangered Species Act (ESA) by: focusing on species recovery providing incentives increasing openness and accountability strengthening scientific standards by using objective scientific standards creating bigger roles for state and local governments compensating private property owners for lost use of land eliminating dysfunctional critical habitat designations making Recovery Plans required by law, within two years of listing, and requiring them to undergo regular review
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) will honor seven World War II veterans who served in Operation Overlord at Normandy by awarding them the Jubilee of Liberty Medal. The awards ceremony will be held on Wednesday, October 5th at 2 PM at the Yakima Armory located at 2501 Airport Lane. “It is important to honor the men and women who fought to ensure our country’s security and freedom,” said McMorris. “I am excited to be continuing this program and I am grateful for the opportunity to recognize these brave individuals who fought during World War II. McMorris is continuing this award program that was first started by former Representative George Nethercutt who wanted to award veterans for their dedication and service. The Jubilee of Liberty Medal was created by the Regional Council of lower Normandy and the Governor of Normandy to honor veterans of Operation Overlord. The medals were originally awarded at a 50th Anniversary celebration held in Normandy in 1994. Many Washington State veterans were unable to receive their medal at the time, and now McMorris is working to ensure these veterans receive the recognition they deserve. This event is open to the public and will include representatives from Congressman Doc Hastings’ office, American Legion Post 36 and VFW Post 379.
01.04.2009	(Washington, DC) –Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) and the House of Representatives voted in favor of H.R. 3893, the Gasoline for America Security (GAS) Act of 2005. The GAS Act (H.R. 3893) puts forward a plan to lower the cost of gasoline and reduce our dependence on foreign sources of energy. “One of my top priorities is to provide economic growth for the region, yet this becomes increasingly difficult when consumers are paying such high gas prices,” said McMorris. “Unfortunately there are no quick fixes to provide immediate relief, but this bill will put us on a path to produce more oil here at home and foster greater conservation and efficiency. We must also continue to focus on renewable energy projects that are vital to the Pacific Northwest.” McMorris supports many renewable energy projects in Eastern Washington. This last week she toured the Hopkins Wind Farm in Dayton and has also visited PNNL where they conducted research on bio-products. McMorris is a cosponsor of H.R. 2498, a bill that would extend the tax incentives for the use of biodiesel through 2010. Biodiesel not only promotes the use of alternative fuel, but would also create a new market for our Eastern Washington farmers by allowing them to develop new crops. The Gas Act of 2005 seeks to lower gasoline prices within the market system without resorting to price controls. It will do this by increasing capacity, streamlining fuel supply, providing transparency in gasoline pricing, fighting price gouging, reducing bureaucracy and revitalizing refineries. The Gas Act: Encourages new refineries to increase supply and address soaring gasoline prices; Limits “boutique fuels” that have propped up gasoline process by artificially limiting supply; Promotes new pipelines to get new crude oil and refined product to consumers at lower prices; Promotes conservation through carpooling and a fuel-efficiency awareness campaign; Bans price gouging in gasoline or diesel fuel sales; and Requires a Federal Trade Commission (FTC) study into credit card company processing fees, which may inflate consumer costs.
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) announced today that Veterans Affairs Secretary James Nicholson has accepted her invitation to visit Walla Walla in January and tour the Jonathan M. Wainwright Memorial Veterans Affairs Medical Center. “I am extremely pleased that Secretary Nicholson has decided to tour the Walla Walla veterans hospital and see first hand how crucial it is to ensure continued veteran health care for our region,” said McMorris. “My top priority is protecting our veteran’s access to quality, affordable health care. This visit will be pivotal in influencing Secretary Nicholson’s decision as to the type of health care that is provided in this area. I feel strongly that we as a community need to coalesce around a small number of options, and present them to the Secretary with a united voice. I look forward to the joining with the LAP and the local task force in furthering those options that will ensure a continuum of care.” McMorris has taken numerous steps to ensure that veterans receive the care they deserve. She has spoken with Senator Larry Craig, Chairman of the Veteran’s Affairs Committee in U.S. Senate, concerning veteran health care needs in Walla Walla and the surrounding service areas of Northeast Oregon and parts of Idaho. The Congresswoman has also worked with Senator Patty Murray, Senator Maria Cantwell and Congressman Greg Walden. She has toured the VA facility in Walla Walla, and held meetings with the CARES Commission and Local Advisory Panel. In Congress she has voted to provide $975 million in additional funds for veteran health care programs, supported appropriations to improve military quality of life, and voted in favor of the Veterans’ Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2005. A specific date for the Secretary’s January visit has yet to be determined.
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) is currently accepting military academy nominations. All those interested must complete and return an application packet by November 1st. “One of my top priorities is ensuring our national security, and that starts by making sure we have the best and brightest serving in our country’s military,” said McMorris. “As a member of Congress I have the privilege of selecting a limited number of nominees for each military service academy. These nominees are the future leaders of our Armed Forces. They will have the opportunity to become commissioned officers and will be entrusted to carry on the power and prestige of our military services.” The service academies include the Air Force Academy, Merchant Marine Academy, Naval Academy and West Point. Application packets must include: a completed application form, high school transcript, SAT or ACT scores, two letters or recommendation and personal essay. An application form can be found online at her website. All applications should be mailed to 10 N. Post Ste 625, Spokane, WA 99201. For more information contact Allison Cole at (509) 353-2374.
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) announced today that Mike Poulson will be joining her staff as Agriculture and Natural Resource Policy Director. Poulson will officially start on November 1st and will help develop agriculture and resource policy for the region. “As a fifth generation farmer, Mike will be a great addition to our team and will allow us to better serve the resource and agriculture communities in Eastern Washington,” said McMorris. “Mike will drive policy from Eastern Washington and work closely with our legislative staff in Washington, D.C. He will also focus on outreach efforts, and will be on the ground listening to the needs of our communities. I am confident that Mike will help build on our successes and help solve the energy and water challenges that are currently facing our region.” Poulson has years of experience on issues that are important to the agriculture community in Eastern Washington. He has farmed near Connell, Washington in Franklin County, since 1965 and has served as Executive Director of the Washington Agriculture Legal Foundation for the past five years. Previously he served as an independent consultant on a wide range of public policy and natural resource issues. He has also been a member of the Washington Farm Bureau, Washington Association of Wheat Growers, Washington Cattlemen's Association and other business and agriculture organizations. “I am excited for this opportunity to join a great team and use my experience to help Eastern Washington,” said Poulson. “Congresswoman McMorris, having a background in farming herself, understands the needs of our region and I appreciate her support for the agriculture and resource industry. I am confident that together we can come up with solutions to provide relief to our agriculture community.” Since January, McMorris has worked to make progress on issues important to our agriculture economy. The House passed the permanent repeal of the death tax, she hosted a Water and Power Subcommittee hearing on the impact of the ESA on the Snake/Columbia rivers system in Clarkston, and she is chairing a 20-member House Task Force on National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). She also sponsored legislation to extend tax incentives for bio-diesel and legislation to help beginning farmers and ranchers and was recently joined by House Agriculture Chairman Bob Goodlatte for an agriculture forum in Ritzville.
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) announced today that Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns accepted her invitation to hold a Farm Bill Forum in Eastern Washington. In September McMorris sent a letter to Secretary Johanns, requesting a forum to be held in Eastern Washington. The forum is scheduled to be held Thursday, November 3rd from 1:00 – 4:00 p.m. in the Showalter Hall at Eastern Washington University. “I am thrilled that Secretary Johanns decided to make Cheney one of the few cities in which he is personally hosting a Farm Forum,” said McMorris. “Agriculture is vital to the economic stability of Eastern Washington and it is one of my top priorities to help our farmers and ranchers with the challenges they are facing. This is an exciting and unique opportunity for our Eastern Washington farmers to speak directly to the Secretary and offer public input regarding a new farm bill. I understand that our agricultural community is facing tough economic times, and now more then ever, we need to be providing them with access to top administration officials.” McMorris was recently joined by House Agriculture Chairman Bob Goodlatte for an agriculture forum in Ritzville. Over a hundred people from the agriculture community attended the event and expressed serious concerns about high fuel and fertilizer costs. This Farm Forum is another opportunity for farmers to express their opinions and be part of the planning process. Since January, McMorris has worked to make progress on issues important to our agriculture economy. The House passed the permanent repeal of the death tax, she hosted a Water and Power Subcommittee hearing on the impact of the ESA on the Snake/Columbia rivers system in Clarkston, and is chairing a 20-member House Task Force on National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). She sponsored legislation to extend tax incentives for bio-diesel and legislation to help beginning farmers and ranchers. She also secured $3.6 million in funds for Agriculture Research Service at Washington State University.
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) announced today that her Spokane office successfully expedited and obtained a Visa for entertainer Jonathan Bos. A musician from Canada, Bos is scheduled to perform at the Loup Loup Ski Education Foundation charity event on Saturday in Okanogan. Although he applied for his Visa three months earlier, when he has still not received it a week before the event, Bos became nervous that he would be unable to perform. “Part of my service to Eastern Washington includes offering special assistance to people with problems with the federal government,” said McMorris. “I was extremely pleased to hear that we were able to successfully obtain a Visa to allow Jon to perform and raise money for charity. In less then 24 hours my office was able to contact the United States Immigration Services and get the request to have the Visa expedited as well as the I-29 petition approved so the charity fundraiser could go on as planned.” The Loup Loup Ski Education Foundation, a non-profit corporation, had already sold over 600 tickets for the event and the fundraising efforts would have been jeopardized if Bos was unable to perform. Bos has performed for the last three years at this charity event and has never had troubles obtaining a PS Visa, which allows foreign artists or entertainment groups to perform in the U.S. The charity event includes live auction, food and entertainment. It is scheduled for Saturday, October 22nd at 5:00 pm at the Okanogan Fairgrounds Agriplex. Jon Bos specializes in today’s hit music, and plays everything from blues and country, to rock and pop. McMorris offers specialized assistance to people of Eastern Washington on a number of specific areas including: academy nominations, flag requests, immigration, Medicare, passports, social security, student financial aid, and veteran services. Visit my website or call the Spokane Office at (509) 353-2374 to obtain a Request for Congressional Assistance form.
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Starting next year, a new Medicare prescription drug benefit plan will go into effect that will bring relief to millions of seniors who struggle with the escalating costs of prescription drugs. One of my top priorities is ensuring access to quality, affordable health care and I realize that updating and strengthening Medicare is part of that effort. In the months ahead, over 102,000 Medicare recipients in Eastern Washington will have the option to being enrolling in prescription benefit plans. Although some beneficiaries will be auto enrolled, all Part D beneficiaries will need to select a plan that is right for them. As with any insurance program, seniors have options. This can be a confusing, and sometimes complicated process, and I want to ensure that people have the information and resources necessary to make educated decisions. Chances are, we all know someone who is eligible for this new prescription drug program. Whether it is our parents, grandparents or neighbors, we all must pitch in to help them understand these important choices. In December of 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernizations Act of 2003 (MMA) was enacted. In addition to coverage for doctor visits, hospital stays, and life-saving surgeries, Medicare will now cover voluntary prescription drug benefits. Everyone with Medicare is eligible for the new prescription drug coverage, regardless of income level, pre-existing conditions, or current prescription expenses. Consumers can choose from at least ten national plans that cover brand name or generic drugs. An average person with Medicare could see his or her total drug spending drop by 50% and people with limited income and resources will have almost no drug expenses. While every plan is different, if a person joins a plan with standard coverage he/she could expect to pay: $32 monthly premium $250 annual deductible 25% of yearly drug costs from $250 to $2,250 100% of the next $2,850 in drug costs (after $3,600 out-of-pocket) 5% or a small co-payment for the rest of the calendar year There are a number of important dates coming up that seniors should mark on their calendars. People can start signing up for programs on November 15th and the benefits will take effect on January 1st. May 15th is the last day to sign up without incurring a penalty, and is also the final opportunity to change plans before 2007. In addition, there is another program specifically for Washington State residents who may not fit within the Medicare prescription drug eligibility guidelines, but who may still need assistance in obtaining their precipitation drugs. Rx Help for Washington is a partnership for prescription assistance. It is a one-stop clearinghouse that provides information on hundreds of patient assistance programs and other public and private programs. It allows thousands of Washington residents to quickly search for free or discounted drugs by calling toll free 1-877-923-6779 or by visiting this website. To learn more about the new Medicare prescription drug coverage, call 1-800-Medicare or visit this website. Seniors can also contact my office at (509) 353-2374 and one of my staff members will put you in touch with Medicare services.
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) announced today that she has joined the Congressional Internet Caucus and is also serving on a new Committee Defense Review panel. Both will focus on growing our technology industry and strengthening our national security. “Eastern Washington is earning a reputation for the amazing cutting edge work of its high-tech companies and technology is a growing driver in our region’s economy,” said McMorris. “Spokane has been nationally recognized for its wireless networks, Mount Carmel Hospital in Colville was recently named as one of the 100 Most Wired Hospitals in the nation, and our local tech companies are creating innovative products to improve our quality of life. We are also currently working to secure broadband for our rural areas. This technology is helping create jobs and enabling people to work smarter and more efficiently” The Internet Caucus was founded in 1996 as a bipartisan group and currently has over 170 members from both the House and Senate. Members of the caucus support the goals of promoting the growth and advancement of the Internet; promoting commerce and the free flow of information on the Internet; and advancing the United States’ leadership in the digital world. The Committee Defense Review is a bipartisan effort by the House Armed Services Committee, of which McMorris is a member, to review national security threats and the military capabilities required to address those threats. McMorris will be serving on one of six panels, responsible for reviewing Asymmetric and Unconventional Threats. Specifically this panel will look at threats to U.S. information superiority and security, threats to U.S. space dominance, threats to U.S. critical infrastructure, and weapons of mass destruction. “It is critical that we begin identifying potential threats in order to strengthen our national security. As we become increasingly dependent on a digital infrastructure, we must be prepared to respond to new types of cyber threats in the form of viruses, spy ware, phishing, and hacking. Another important element of our national security is making sure our armed forces have the latest and most advanced technological equipment. This is why I am working to secure new KC 135 refueling tankers at Fairchild Air Force Base.” Eastern Washington has a growing technology base focused on the defense industry. General Dynamics has acquired Itronix who is working on new methods to make computers more durable and enable them with a variety of wireless and positioning technologies. Isotherm Systems Research (ISR) has developed a new alternative coolant fluid that will lead to increased performance of systems. Inland Northwest Health Services (INHS) is looking to introduce the use of Electronic Medical Records into the military. In May, McMorris was named to the Speaker’s High-Tech Working Group, whose priorities include encouraging broadband development and deployment, making the R&D tax credit permanent, keeping the Internet free of new taxes and regulations, and supporting efforts to use technology to improve our health care system.
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) announced today that the U.S. House of Representatives passed H.R. 420 The Lawsuit Abuse Reduction Act of 2005. This bill will grow the economy and help small businesses by holding individuals and attorneys accountable for abusive lawsuits. “One of my top priorities is to ensure economic growth; for our region this begins by protecting and promoting the interests of our small businesses,” said McMorris. “Frivolous lawsuits make both small businesses and their employees suffer. While some claims are legitimate, a large number of lawsuits are completely without merit. We must require accountability, especially in the form of monetary sanctions, for those who bring forth reckless claims that threaten the future of the small businesses in Eastern Washington." The number of civil lawsuits has tripled since the 1960s and the current tort system is costing Americans well over $200 billion per year, the equivalent of a five percent tax on wages. Small businesses rank the cost and availability of liability insurance as one of their top priorities, second only to the cost of health care. The current Washington State budget includes more than $170 million to play for tort claims and related defense costs, which is often transferred over to taxpayers in the form of a “litigation tax.” The Lawsuit Abuse Reduction Act of 2005 curbs lawsuit abuse by: Restoring mandatory sanctions on attorneys, law firms, or parties who file frivolous lawsuits; Permitting monetary sanctions, including reimbursement of reasonable attorney’s fees and litigation costs; Abolishing the “free pass” provision that allows parties and their attorneys to avoid sanctions by withdrawing a suit within 21 days after a motion for sanctions has been filed; Providing a national solution to prevent forum shopping, the practice of attorneys bringing lawsuits in jurisdictions that consistently hand down rewards, even when the case as little or no connection to the state or locality. Since January, McMorris has voted in support of numerous bills regarding tort reform legislation. She co-sponsored The Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act (H.R. 800), which provides protections for those in the firearms industry from lawsuits brought forth by individuals who commit crimes using firearms. Last week the House passed The Personal Responsibility in Food Consumption Act (H.R. 554) prohibits obesity or weight gain-related claims against the food industry. The Class Action Fairness Act of 2005 (H.R. 516) unclogs specific over-used courts and protects customers with a “Consumer Class Action Bill of Rights.”
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today voted in support H.R. 2744 the Agriculture Appropriations Bill, which will now be sent to the President to be signed into law. Based on combined efforts of the House and the Senate, the bill includes funding for key agriculture projects in Eastern Washington. The highlights of the projects include: Agriculture Research Service Facility – $3,625,000 Bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) – $500,000 Walla Walla Watershed Alliance – $500,000 Asparagus Technology and Production – $248,000 Perennial Wheat – $141,000 Potato Research – $1,497,000 "The agriculture industry is vital to Eastern Washington¡¦s economy and culture,¨ said McMorris. "Our farmers are facing some tough economic times and I want to make sure they have the support and resources they need to succeed. This funding will help boost the industry and allow for new projects and innovations. Securing funds for the Agriculture Research Service facility at Washington State University has been my top priority and provides a great opportunity for research scientists to work together within the academic community.¨ The bill provides for a total of $17.1 billion in overall funding. It provides funding for projects in three main areas: human health and safety; fulfilling commitments to important food and nutrition programs; and supporting farmers, rancher and rural America.
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) announced today that she will be holding two town hall meetings in Newport and Colville to educate Eastern Washington seniors on the new Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit Plan. Newport Saturday, November 5, 11:00 amHospitality House 216 S. Washington Ave Colville Saturday, November 5, 4:00 pmStevens County Courthouse Commissioners Hearing Room, #215215 S. Oak “In the months ahead, over 102,000 Medicare recipients in Eastern Washington will have the option to begin enrolling in prescription benefit plans,” said McMorris. “As with any insurance program, seniors have options. This can be a confusing, and sometimes complicated process, and I want to ensure that people have the information and resources necessary to make educated decisions. Chances are, we all know someone who is eligible for this new prescription drug program. Whether it is our parents, grandparents or neighbors, we all must pitch in to help them understand these important choices.” In December of 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernizations Act of 2003 (MMA) was enacted. In addition to coverage for doctor visits, hospital stays, and life-saving surgeries, Medicare will now cover voluntary prescription drug benefits. Everyone with Medicare is eligible for the new prescription drug coverage, regardless of income level, pre-existing conditions, or current prescription expenses. Consumers can choose from at least ten national plans that cover brand name or generic drugs. A SHIBA representative will be present to help answer any questions regarding the new Medicare plan. Initial enrollment for Medicare Part D begins November 15th, 2005.
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA 05) today joined nearly 100 members of the U.S. House of Representatives in sponsoring the Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act (FERRA) that would expedite the cleanup and restoration of federal forests after catastrophic events such as wildfires, hurricanes and windstorms. “Our forests, and the resulting timber, play an extremely important role in the economy of the Pacific Northwest,” said McMorris. “Maintaining healthy forests is essential to those who make a living from the land and for those of us who use them for recreational purposes. Eastern Washington has experienced a number of deadly forest fires this season, and it is crucial that we have bipartisan legislation that will expedite the research and restoration process.” FERRA (H.R. 4200) is modeled after the Healthy Forest Restoration Act, which provides expedited procedures to protect communities from wildfires. Its introduction comes after nearly two years of hearings by the Forests and Forest Health Subcommittee of the House Resources Committee that focused on problems plaguing the nation’s forests after catastrophic events. In August the Subcommittee Chairman, Greg Walden (R-OR) held a hearing in Colville on issues affecting forest health management in the Pacific Northwest. FERRA provides tools and authorities to federal land managers for the rapid assessment of damage in forestlands following catastrophic events. If swift restoration work is necessary to restore the health of our nation’s forests, expedited – but thorough – environmental review of proposed actions would be performed by the agencies, including full public notice and participation. Land managers would then be able to engage in active management practices relating to the dead and dying timber left in forests, restoring landscapes, removing excess fuel loads, improving water and air quality, and preventing additional reforestation backlog, estimated in a May 2005 Government Accountability Office report at one million acres.
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) and Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns held a Farm Forum today at the Eastern Washington University campus in Cheney. Over 500 farmers and ranchers from all over Eastern Washington attended the event to discuss the upcoming Farm Bill. The Secretary came to Eastern Washington at the request of McMorris, and this is one of a series of public Farm Bill forums being conducted throughout the nation to obtain input on agricultural and rural community federal policy. “Agriculture is vital to our region’s economy and I am committed to doing everything necessary to get our farmers through these tough economic times,” said McMorris. “The 2007 Farm Bill could greatly impact our agriculture community. This was an excellent opportunity to share concerns regarding the next Farm Bill as well as the current problems we are facing with the county loan rate for soft white wheat and the increase in fuel and fertilizer costs.” “I would like to thank Secretary Johanns for taking the time to come to Eastern Washington. He was very receptive to the concerns of our farmers and I will continue to work with the administration to protect the interests of our agriculture community.” McMorris has worked hard to make progress on issues important to the agriculture and resource community and has had the honor of bringing several of her colleagues from D.C. to Washington State for Congressional hearings and forums. In June, she hosted a Water and Power Subcommittee hearing with Congressman George Radanovich (R-CA) on the impact of the ESA on the Snake/Columbia rivers system in Clarkston. In August the House Subcommittee on Forests and Forest Health held a hearing in Colville on issues affecting forest health management in the Pacific Northwest. She was joined by Subcommittee Chairman, Greg Walden (R-OR), in listening to expert testimony on wildfire, forest health, tribal lands, and post-fire reforestation. Most recently she held an agriculture forum in Ritzville with House Agriculture Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA) that was attended by over a hundred people from the agriculture community.
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today hailed the passage of H.R. 4128 The Private Property Right Protection Act by the House of Representatives. McMorris is a co-sponsor of this bill that aims at defending private property rights in response to the Supreme Court’s recent decision in Kelo v. City of New London. “Private ownership of property is vital to both our freedom and our prosperity,” said McMorris. “People in Eastern Washington should be confident in knowing that the government will not come and seize their property or farm land. Legislation is needed to correct this decision and restore the principle of having limited government involvement.” The Private Property Protection Act enhances the penalty for states and localities that abuse their eminent domain power by denying them all federal economic development funds for a period of two years. States of localities that abuse their eminent domain power justified by “economic development” should not be trusted with federal economic development funding. In Kelo v. City of New London, decided June 23, 2005, the Supreme Court ruled 5-4 that the city's condemnation of private property, to implement its area redevelopment plan aimed at invigorating a depressed economy, was a "public use" satisfying the U.S. Constitution – even though the property might be turned over to private developers. The majority opinion was grounded on Supreme Court decisions holding that "public use" must be read broadly to mean "for a public purpose."
01.04.2009	(Washington, DC) –A bill introduced in the U.S. House and Senate late last night will reimburse local communities along the Northern Border for costs they bear in prosecuting and detaining people apprehended at the border and for border-related crimes. “Securing our Northern Border is an essential part of keeping our nation and communities safe,” said U.S. Rep. Cathy McMorris (R-WA). “It is crucial that we ensure our border agents and local authorities have the funding and resources necessary to protect our region. I am committed to securing our borders; providing law enforcement agencies with adequate border security personnel, technology and resources; and strictly enforcing current immigration laws.” The federal government currently reimburses local governments along the Southwest Border for costs incurred while handling federal/border related cases. No similar program exists for the Northern Border. The Northern Border Prosecution Initiative Reimbursement Act (H.R. 4228) as introduced today would alleviate the burden on Northern Border communities like those in Whatcom and Spokane counties whose criminal justice resources are depleted when federal agencies pass on cases to local authorities and the U.S. Attorney’s office chooses not to prosecute. The impact on the local police forces, court systems, prosecutor offices, and public defenders is extreme. “Every year Whatcom County is forced to pay more than $2 million out of its own pocket to incarcerate, prosecute, and provide defense services for border-related cases,” U.S. Rep. Rick Larsen (D-WA) noted. “The Southwest Border communities aren’t expected to foot the bill for federal cases. Our cash-strapped local communities shouldn’t be either,” he stressed. U.S. Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) said, “We can’t keep sticking financially strapped local communities with the bill for prosecuting federal crimes on the northern border. If we’re going to make sure our northern border stays secure, we need seamless cooperation between state and federal governments, and we need to get federal support to the local level.” Specifically, the bill would provide direct reimbursement to cities and counties for expenses, including the costs of prosecution, detention of suspects, court costs, and construction of holding spaces. Reimbursable expenses would also include the cost of prosecuting expensive cases resulting from the investigative work of multi-jurisdictional task forces. Reimbursements would be available as long as the investigation or arrest was initiated by federal law enforcement including the Border Patrol or any case that involves a violation of federal law that has been referred for prosecution by federal authorities. U.S. Reps. Rick Larsen (D-WA) and Cathy McMorris (R-WA) are lead sponsors in the House. Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) is the lead sponsor in the Senate.
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) announced today that she helped secure over $6.9 million in funding in H.R. 2419 Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act for local projects in Eastern Washington. The projects include: Gonzaga University electric utility transformation program Isothermal Systems Research Spray Cooling Technology "Funding for these projects will help contribute to the economic growth of Eastern Washington,¨ said McMorris. "This appropriations bill covers a wide range of projects that are crucial to our region. These projects will help us have a skilled workforce, provide for our future energy needs, use innovative technology solutions to help our nation defense effort, and ensure our farmers have the water to irrigate their lands.¨ Gonzaga University Electric Utility Transformation program – $800,000 Gonzaga University will use the funding for an electric utility transmission and distribution line engineering program. This one of a kind program that will offer a Master of Science degree as well as certification for working professionals in engineering. "It is vital that we have a reliable electricity grid,¨ said McMorris. "Through this project, Gonzaga University is helping to build a skilled 21st century workforce of technicians and professionals to design and operate electric power grids.¨ "This is wonderful news for the University, for Eastern Washington, and for our region,¨ said Robert J. Spitzer, S.J., President, Gonzaga University. "The Federal dollars will be invested in the University¡¦s electricity transmission and distribution program that will certify and train the power engineers of the future. We thank Rep. McMorris for her leadership this year in securing this funding. Her support for this program has been critical and we appreciate all her hard work and effort.¨ Isothermal Systems Research (ISR) Spray Cooling Technology – $6,000,000 ISR will use appropriated funds for research in spray cooling technology to remove heat from densely packaged high performance processors. It is estimated that as much as 12 percent of annual U.S. energy consumption may be attributed to Internet infrastructure. Advancing this technology will alleviate the energy costs associated with large server farms and data centers consuming high levels of energy. This technology will reduce operating costs on our businesses, and will allow for more cost effective use of energy and space. "This technology will be the launching pad for a fundamental redesign of server technology, with ISR providing the enabling technology for the next generation of computing,¨ said McMorris. "I appreciate the very strong interest that Energy and Water Chairman David Hobson (R-OH) has shown for this technology and his commitment to supporting innovative companies like ISR.¨ "Our successful collaboration with PNNL has enable ISR to significantly advance our revolutionary approach to high efficiency supercomputer design,¨ said Jeff Severs, President of ISR. "This funding creates significant opportunities to expand ISR'¦s reach into commercial markets and is a foundation for continuing to create new jobs at our company.¨
01.04.2009	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) and Adam Smith (WA-09) today introduced the Medicaid Access Project through Information Technology (MAP IT). The bill (H.R. 4331) will allow for the creation of a demonstration project that will provide a more efficient and effective system for managing chronic disease by using health information technology on disease management for the Medicaid population. “One of my top priorities is to provide access to quality, affordable health care,” said U.S. Rep. Cathy McMorris (WA-05). “Recent advancements in health information technology and the use of electronic medical records allows for innovative collaboration where patients, doctors and health educators can be brought together online to discuss patients health care needs. By providing online access for managing chronic disease, we can improve health care for Medicaid recipients and provide states with an alternative to cutting services or raising taxes.” The demonstration project will give chronic disease patients and caregivers access to their own medical records and to a single source of information on chronic disease. The program will include several channels of communication with health educators, as well as a Personal Health Record, to allow patients to record and track their own health information. Information and access methods will be tailored to the patient’s needs. Physicians and other caregivers will have access to complete, current treatment and health status information for chronic disease patients, using the virtual case management tool. “Under the current paper-based healthcare system, patients and their doctors lack instant access to medical information,” said U.S. Rep. Adam Smith (WA-09). “This lack of connectivity and shared knowledge leads to medical errors, increased costs, and inefficiency. This pilot project would leverage information technology as a tool to increase the efficiency of the healthcare system, improve the quality of care for Medicaid patients and it will decrease costs to states and the federal government, which are facing record deficits.” Combined federal and state spending on Medicaid over the next ten years is estimated to be $14.5 trillion. The federal government has proposed significant reductions in funding for Medicaid. This increases the financial burden on states, forcing them to either decrease Medicaid enrollment and services, or raise taxes. Expenses from the care of individuals with chronic conditions are a major part of state Medicaid budgets. Facilitating access to chronic disease management program through information technology would save states money on their overall Medicaid budget. Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services will select at least four proposals to perform the demonstration projects from those submitted by states. The demonstrations will be for two years with an evaluation afterwards to determine the amount of cost savings resulting from the project. Co-sponsors of this bipartisan bill include Dave Reichert (WA-08), Norm Dicks (WA-06), Greg Walden (OR-02), Butch Otter (ID -01), and Mike Simpson (ID-02).
12.31.2008	(Washington, D.C.) The House Task Force on Updating the National Environmental Policy Act held its sixth and final hearing today and heard from federal officials and national representatives on their NEPA experiences. The Task Force will culminate all of the testimony and comments received over the last eight months and present its final recommendations to the House Committee on Resources. “Today we heard from many experts with combined decades of experience dealing with NEPA procedures,” said Task Force Chairwoman Cathy McMorris (R-WA). “And although I saw a wide variance in opinions, every single witness told me he saw some way NEPA procedures should be improved.” Witnesses testified about the reasons for delays associated with NEPA litigation and federal agencies trying to implement the law’s procedures. Several witnesses highlighted the time consuming nature lawsuits can bring to the process of approving a project, causing delays of six to ten years. In other instances witnesses spoke to the nature in which lawsuit were filed, mainly because opponents disagree with the project and want to delay its approval or even attempt to stop the project entirely. The Task Force will now begin the work of finalizing a draft report to House Resources Committee Chairman Richard W. Pombo. The report will be issued within the next month and will include the comments and testimony received from previous hearings and any recommendations the Task Force may have on improving NEPA.
12.31.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today voted for the Budget Deficit Act. The legislation will reduce the deficit by $50 billion over five years. “One of my top priorities is to promote economic growth, yet this can only happen if we get spending under control,” said McMorris. “I am committed to reducing the deficit and restoring fiscal responsibility. The legislation passed today saves money by slowing the rate of growth for a variety of programs. It is necessary that we make commonsense reforms and restructure programs in such a way that benefits are actually going to those in our society who are the most vulnerable. The people deserve to know that their tax dollars are being spent wisely and we must address our current financial situation before it turns into a crisis for future generations.” In the past 15 years, Congress has passed three other budget reconciliation bills. In 1990, the bill reduced the deficit by $324 billion over five years, in 1993 by $192 billion, and in 1997 by $152 billions. The Deficit Reduction Act contains provisions that trim the deficit and reform government by: Saving and strengthening Medicaid by adopting provisions offered by the bi-partisan National Governors Association; Reducing waste, fraud, and abuse; Rebuilding community first responder capabilities by freeing up vital spectrum airwaves; Increasing heating assistance for low-income Americans by assuming a $1 billion (50% increase) in additional funding for the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP); Expanding Welfare Reform by reauthorizing the successful welfare reform policies in TANF and providing an additional $1 billion in funding
12.31.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) released information today to set the record straight regarding the student loan provisions in the Deficit Reduction Act. The bill will expand college access for low-and middle-income students while generating savings for taxpayers by eliminating program waste and inefficiency, trimming excess subsidies paid to lenders, and placing student aid programs on a more stable financial foundation. “I am committed to ensuring students have every opportunity possible to gain access to education, which will lead to a stronger economy,” said McMorris. “Schools in Eastern Washington, such as Washington State University, Gonzaga University and Whitworth College all have students who rely on federal loans to help fund their higher education. When the Perkins Loan Program was slated for elimination, I fought to guarantee that it would continue to operate, ensuring disadvantaged students low-interest loans. By making common-sense reforms and eliminating waste we can ensure that more Eastern Washington students will have the opportunity to earn a college degree.” Opponents have claimed that the proposals would “result in the typical student paying $5,800 more for college loans.” The $5,800 figure is misleading and unfair to students. Below are the facts about the reforms that will strengthen the federal student loan program: Loan interest rates: Current student loan interest rates are just 4.7 percent. McMorris voted to repeal the jump to a 6.8 percent fixed interest rate that would prevent students from taking advantage of low market-based rates. Instead of imposing an arbitrary fixed interest rate that would increase costs for borrowers, this bill protects variable interest rates for students. Borrows save money under a variable interest rate structure. Since 1997, borrowers with a variable rate would have paid an average interest rate of less than 6.8 percent on loan with a standard 10-year repayment. Ending excess subsidies: McMorris voted to permanently eliminate practices that have allowed some lenders to collect a minimum 9.5 percentage rate of return on some student loans – at the cost of taxpayers. Increases lending rates for first and second year students: To give students additional borrowing opportunities, McMorris voted to increase the amount that first and second year college students may borrow. Studies show that students who complete their first two years of college are more likely to continue on to graduation. Under this bill, first-year student limits will increase from $2,625 to $3,500 and second-year student limits will increase from $3,500 to $4,500. Loan Deferment for Military: McMorris voted to add a new provision under which military or National Guard personnel who are serving on active duty during a war or other military operation or national emergency may defer their loan payments for up to three years. Loan Forgiveness for National Service: The bill provides for loan forgiveness for service in areas of national need and stipulates specific areas of service, including early childhood educators, nurses, foreign language specialists, librarians, certain teachers, and others.
12.31.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) voted today in favor of H.R. 4297, The Tax Relief Extension Reconciliation Act of 2005 that will help Washington State residents keep more of their money. The bill includes tax provisions that will continue to create jobs and grow the economy. “One of my top priorities in Congress is to provide for the growth and stability of Eastern Washington’s economy,” said McMorris. “Providing tax relief and reducing regulations leads to job creation and new economic opportunities for our small businesses, which are the backbone of our economy. This bill prevents a tax hike and allows people to keep more of their hard earned money.” The bill includes a one-year extension for state and local sales tax deductions, a provision especially important to Washington State taxpayers. McMorris is a co-sponsor of H.R. 519 that would make the sales tax deduction permanent. The provision creates parity among States by allowing all taxpayers the option to deduct their State and local sale taxes in lieu of their State and local income taxes. “Eastern Washington families and businesses should be able to deduct every penny of state and local sales tax they pay throughout the year from their federal tax bill, especially when people in most states are deducting their state income taxes. It is a matter of fairness. This one-year extension is a victory, and I am hopeful that soon we will be able to make these deductions permanent.” The Tax Relief Extension Reconciliation Act contains pro-growth economic policies including: State and local tax deductions, Above-the-line deduction for higher education expenses, Above-the line deduction for out-of-pocket teacher classroom expenses. Enhanced charitable deduction for computer donations to schools and public libraries, Availability of Archer Medical Savings Accounts
12.31.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05), along with 22 members of Congress, sent a letter to House Budget Committee Chairman Jim Nussle and House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Joe Barton that outlines a series of recommendations to the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 that will help our region’s independent pharmacies. “One of my top priorities is to provide access to quality, affordable health care, especially in the rural areas of Eastern Washington,” said McMorris. “I have heard from independent pharmacies from across Eastern Washington that they are concerned specifically with how some of the changes in the Deficit Reduction Act may impact their business. I share their concerns and want to make sure the prescription drug reimbursement proposal does not disproportionately affect our region’s community and independent pharmacies and hurt their ability to serve our rural communities.” The recommendations made in the letter include: Using the House version of the Retail Average Manufacture Price (RAMP) to ensure that small pharmacies are not negatively impacted by the inclusion of volume discounts, chargeback, or rebates. Requiring monthly updates of RAMP Creating Critical Access Pharmacies to allow pharmacies that are 20 miles away from another pharmacy to be reimbursed under different payment methods Requiring the Government Accountability Office report to be completed before RAMP goes into effect. Supporting language set a minimum $8 dispensing free for brand name drugs and $12 for generic.
12.31.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today supported the passage of the Labor, Health and Human Services Appropriations Conference Report. She spoke on the House floor in support of this bill that includes additional funding for several key rural health programs that are important to Eastern Washington. “One of my top priorities is providing access to quality and affordable health care,” said McMorris. “Much of Eastern Washington is rural, creating a challenge for those who do not live near a health center, such as Spokane. We must have legislation that strengthens Eastern Washington’s rural health infrastructure, recruits and train physicians to practice in rural areas and continues to find long-term solutions to meet rural health care needs.” McMorris has been a leader in providing access to rural health care and sponsored legislation that establishes demonstration programs to address the shortages of health care professionals in rural areas. The program allows students to receive their training from rural clinics and provides incentives for residents to practice in rural areas where health care professionals are needed. Rural health highlights in the Labor HHS bill include: Area of Health Education Centers – Area Health Education centers will receive $29 million in funding. These centers provide education and training to health care professionals in community settings while encouraging them to work in rural areas. Medical Training – The bill increases funding for programs that encourage training and expand education opportunities for current and future health care professionals. Primary Care and Dentistry will receive $41 million. Scholarships for Disadvantaged Students will receive $47 million. Office of Rural Health Research and Policy – The bill restores $9 million in funding for the office of Rural Health Research and Policy provides information to rural communities and represents a united voice for Rural America. Rural Health Outreach Grants– This program is one of the few that is focused on providing targeted, flexible resources to support innovative rural health solutions in communities across the country. Rural Health Outreach Grants received $40 million in funding this year. Community Health Centers – Community Health Centers, which offer numerous health care services to patients in rural areas, received a $66 million increase in funding this year.
12.31.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today supported the passage of the USA Patriot Act and Terrorism Prevention Reauthorization Act of 2005 Conference Report (H.R. 3199). The legislation will help protect our country against the war on terror and the war on drugs. “One of my top priorities is to keep our communities and nation safe,” said McMorris. “In order to ensure our security we must give law enforcement the necessary tools to prevent terrorism and combat meth in our neighborhoods.” The Conference Report includes comprehensive measures to address the methamphetamine abuse crisis by increasing enforcement, regulating the every-day substances used in the manufacturing of meth, and increasing education and prevention. As a member of the Meth Caucus, McMorris has helped communities throughout Eastern Washington address the growing struggle against meth. In August McMorris held a crime town hall in Spokane with several local, state and federal law enforcement members and discussed the impact that meth is having in Eastern Washington. “The use of methamphetamines is a growing epidemic in the country, especially in Eastern Washington. It causes severe health problems for its users and leads to numerous social costs and increased crime. This drug has seeped into every corner of our country and into the fabric of our communities. This bill will reduce the supply of this drug by making it more difficult to obtain the ingredients necessary for production and will stiffen penalties for anyone caught producing meth.” Highlights of the Patriot Act Conference Report include: Removing legal barriers which prevented the law enforcement, intelligence, and national defense communities from coordinating their work Allowing law enforcement to conduct surveillance of more terror-related activities and authorizing nationwide search warrants Combating terrorism financing Fighting crime and terrorism at America’s seaports Enhancing penalties for attacks against railroad and mass transit Narrowing the definition of terrorism Creating a National Security Division within the Department of Justice as requested by the Commission on Weapons of Mass Destruction
12.31.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) announced today the selection of Ryan Work to serve as her Legislative Director in Washington, DC. Work is currently the Legislative Director for Congresswoman Katherine Harris (R-FL) and previously worked on the staff of the Ways and Means Committee, Subcommittee on Human Resources. “In hiring staff and serving Eastern Washington in Congress, I want to attract the best and the brightest to help work on behalf of our region – Ryan fits that goal,” said McMorris. “His legislative experience in the private and public sector will help ensure that we continue our focus of growing the economy in Eastern Washington and making sure we are working to provide access to quality, affordable health care and keeping our nation and communities safe.” Prior to working for Congresswoman Harris, Work spent three years in the private sector working on education, international relations, health care and related issues. He has also worked for the House Ways and Means Committee working on welfare reform. Work is a graduate of the Pennsylvania State University and is originally from Illinois. During college he served as an intern for Speaker Dennis Hastert. He is fluent in Spanish. “While we are pleased with Ryan’s legislative experience, we are concerned that his Big Ten affiliation might hinder his ability to support the Pac Ten,” continued McMorris. “As Legislative Director, I hope to continue and build upon Congresswoman McMorris’ successful first year in Congress,” said Ryan Work. “I look forward to helping her and her staff advance policies that will benefit Eastern Washington.” Work’s first day on McMorris’ staff will be January 1, 2006. He will be based in Washington, DC.
12.31.2008	(Washington, D.C.) During her first year in Congress, Cathy McMorris (WA-05) has worked to protect what's important to Eastern Washington. From helping local small businesses, to hosting local congressional hearings, to introducing legislation to meet rural health care needs, McMorris has actively fought for the interests of Eastern Washington. "My top three priorities for my first term in Congress are growing our economy; providing for quality, affordable health care; and keeping our nation and communities safe,¨ said McMorris. "I have worked proactively to address the issues that are most important to the people of Eastern Washington. Throughout the year I have traveled to all twelve counties in Eastern Washington meeting with individuals, groups, and businesses and listening to their concerns and priorities. I am prouder to be serving Eastern Washington now more then ever before and look forward to another productive year." Job Creation and Economic GrowthMcMorris has supported policies that grow our economy, help small businesses, create a skilled workforce, and bring new jobs to Eastern Washington. Advocated on behalf of Eastern Washington to stop the President from requiring the Bonneville Power Administration to charge market-based rates for electricity. The change would have cost a typical Northwest household nearly $300 per year. McMorris sponsored and supported the permanent repeal of the Death Tax to protect our small businesses and family farms. Connected Education and Workforce Committee Chairman John Boehner with local educators and business owners who stressed the urgent need for a relevant workforce. Supported class action lawsuit reform, to curb litigation costs for small businesses. Voted to extend tax relief to promote economic growth. Co-sponsored a balanced budget amendment to restore fiscal discipline to Washington D.C. Supported the Transportation Equity Act which included funding for transportation projects in Eastern Washington including nearly $6 million for U.S. Highway 12 from Burbank to Walla Walla; $6.6 million for U.S. North Spokane Corridor; $9.9 million for the widening of I-90 from Spokane to Idaho State line; and more than $7 million for projects in Asotin, Ferry, Okanogan, and Spokane Counties. Offered testimony to the SBA Ombudsman on behalf of small businesses and how they are impacted by the implementation of the Small Business Regulatory Fairness Enforcement Act. Agriculture and natural resources are vital to the economic stability of Eastern Washington, and McMorris has made it a priority to look out for the interests of our farmers and ranchers. Hosted two of the most influential leaders in the nation for agriculture policy: House Agriculture Chairman Bob Goodlatte and Agriculture Secretary Mike Johanns for farm forums in Eastern Washington. On several occasions, members of the agriculture community shared firsthand concerns relating to fuel and fertilizer costs; trade policies, and market pricing. Hosted a Water and Power Subcommittee hearing in Clarkston with Congressman George Radanovich on the critical role that the Snake and Columbia River systems play in irrigation, transportation and commerce. Convened a Forest Health hearing in Colville with Subcommittee Chairman Greg Walden to allow for testimony on implementation of healthy forest legislation and post-fire treatment. Chaired a congressional task force to strengthen the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). Secured funding for the Agriculture Research Service center at Washington State University, ensuring their continued role as a leader in agriculture research. Quality, Affordable Health CareMcMorris has consistently supported legislation that strengthens health care delivery and ensures access to quality health care in rural areas. Sponsored legislation to establish demonstration projects to improve access to Medicaid through information technology. Voted for Association Health Plans that allow small business employers to band together in order to purchase health insurance at a lower cost for their employees. Supported Health Savings Accounts that allow families to save tax-free for their health care needs. Introduced legislation to protect the rural health training program known as WWAMI (Washington, Wyoming, Alaska, Montana, and Idaho) which effectively addresses the shortage of health care professionals in rural areas. Co-sponsored the HEALTH Act to bring much needed medical liability reform to health care providers in Eastern Washington. Promoted the use of Health Technology as a way to deliver quality health care to a wider population at reduced costs and supported regional companies such as Inland Northwest Health Services (INHS) through her appointment to Speaker Hastert's High-Tech Work Group. Keeping our Nation and Community SafeMcMorris is working to provide our law enforcement and military men and women with the tools they need to complete their missions. Fought to protect Fairchild Air Force Base during the Base Realignment and Closure process, and as a member of the Armed Services Committee, is now focused on expanding the base and securing replacements to the aging KC-135 tankers. In August, McMorris held a crime town hall with local, state and federal law enforcement officials to continue to make Eastern Washington a safe place to live, work and raise a family. Co-sponsored legislation to help border communities with security costs such as prosecution, detention of suspects and court costs. Co-sponsored the Children¡¦s Safety Act to protect our children from sex offenders by expanding the definition of certain offenses; requiring registration prior to leaving prison and extending the duration of required registration; and ensuring mandatory minimum sentences for violent and sexual crimes against children. Co-sponsored legislation to fight the war on meth, is a member of the Meth Caucus, and served on three committees which deal directly with the impact of drugs and drug trafficking. Constituent ServicesIn the past year, McMorris has helped hundreds of individuals cut through red tape and navigate the complexities of federal agencies, advocating on their behalf for a fair and timely resolution to their problems. Some examples of favorable resolved issues: Secured permanent asylum for Vladimir German and his family so they could remain in Walla Walla. Awarded a Purple Heart to Marine Federico Diaz-Martinez after advocating to the Department of Defense of his behalf. Guaranteed the success of the Loup Loup Ski Education Foundation charity event in Okanogan by securing and expediting a visa for Canadian entertainer Jonathan Bos. Coordinated multiple agencies to secure appropriate permits for a landowner to stabilize an eroding riverbank which threatened his home and property. Expedited military service unemployability for a retired veteran resulting in a retroactive payment of nearly $80,000. GrantsMcMorris worked to secure grant money for organizations and programs that will grow Eastern Washington¡¦s economy and keep our communities safe. $300,000: Spokane Neighborhood Economic Development Alliance (SNEDA) $300,000: Regional Institute for Community Orientated Policing Services at Washington State University $3,000,000: Spokane Police Department Community Oriented Policing Services AppropriationsMcMorris, along with the Washington State delegation, secured the following appropriation funds for key projects in Eastern Washington: Transportation Equity ActOur transportation infrastructure is vital to the economic stability and growth of Eastern Washington. Improving the flow of traffic, expanding our highways to transport products grown and made in our region, and providing better conditions to make our roads safer are all benefits of these projects. $5.94 million: U.S. Highway 12, Burbank to Walla Walla $6.64 million: U.S. 395 North Spokane Corridor $9.94 million: I-90 Spokane to Idaho State Line Widening $800,000: Bridging the Valley $840,000: Fleshman Way/State Route 129 Interchange $440,000: Spokane Advanced Traffic Management System Expansion $1.65 million: Toroda Creek Road Improvements, Ferry County $850,000: Toroda Creek Road Improvements, Okanogan County Energy and Water This appropriations bill covers a wide range of projects that are crucial to Eastern Washington. These projects will help us have a skilled workforce, provide for our future energy needs, use innovative technology solutions to help our national defense efforts, and ensure our farmers have the water to irrigate their lands. $250,000: Odessa Sub Aquifer ¡V Technical study $800,000: Gonzaga University ¡V Electrical line distribution program $6 million: Isothermal Systems Research (ISR) Spray Cooling technology Military Quality of LifeThis bill ensures that the men and women who serve our country, and are stationed in Eastern Washington, have the best facilities, equipment and care possible. $706,000: Planning and Design for a Mission Support Complex at Fairchild AFB AgricultureFunding from this bill will help boost the agriculture industry in Eastern Washington and allow for new projects and innovations. It provides funding for projects in three main areas: human health and safety; fulfilling commitments to important food and nutrition programs; and supporting farmers and ranchers in rural areas. $3.625 million: ARS Research Laboratory to replace Johnson Hall in Pullman, WA S 1 million: Bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE). ARS is directed to implement an integrated BSE program in pathogenesis, diagnostics, and intervention. Agricultural Research Service Continuing Programs: Grain Legume Plant Pathologist Position; Pullman, WA Hops Research; Washington State University Microbial Genomics; WSU-Institute for Genomic Research Regional Molecular Genotyping; Pullman, WA Virus-Free Fruit Tree Cultivars; WSU Defense (Conference Report still pending in Senate)It is vital to support local companies who are making a tremendous contribution to our national defense and security. Eastern Washington has a growing technology base focused on the defense industry. This funding will allow for new innovations and help boost the local economy. $4.4 million: Itronix Warfighter Pocket XP $1.2 million: Micro vision Eyewear Display for Battlefield Ops
12.30.2008	(Washington D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) announced today that the Department of Health and Human Services will provide Washington State with $776,538 in emergency funds for the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP). “This funding will make a big difference for Eastern Washington families,” said McMorris. “As energy costs continue to rise, this extra funding will allow families in need to pay their heating and energy bills. While this one-time funding will provide short-term relief, we must continue to look for long-term solutions that will increase and diversify our domestic energy supply.” Last year, Congress appropriated $2.183 billion in the Labor HHS Appropriations Bill and $2 billion the Defense Appropriations Bill for LIHEAP assistance. The House Passed Deficit Reduction Act Conference Report also included an additional $1 billion for LIHEAP funding. LIHEAP is a block grant program that allows states to operate multi-component home energy assistance programs for low-income households. The Department of Health and Human Services today released a total of $100 million in emergency contingency funds nationwide to states, tribes, and territories. Each year, almost 5 million low-income households across the country receive LIHEAP assistance.
12.30.2008	(Washington D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) will attend a public ceremony to recognize Inland Northwest Blood Center and present them with a copy of House Resolution 220: Honoring Americas Blood Centers, which she co-sponsored. The event will take place on Wednesday, January 18 at 2:00 pm at Inland Northwest Blood Center, 210 W. Cataldo Ave Spokane, WA 99201. “I am proud to recognize Inland Northwest Blood Center for helping to meet the increased need for blood and for being a valuable part our health care system in Eastern Washington,” said McMorris. “One out of every three people will need donated blood in their lifetime. Inland Northwest Blood Center helps ensure that there is a safe, adequate supply of blood available for those who need it. They help save lives on a daily basis by providing blood, responding to emergency situations, and increasing the number of volunteer blood donors.” Inland Northwest Blood Center is an active member of America’s Blood Centers, which is the largest network of community-based, federally licensed not-for-profit blood centers. America Blood Centers provide half of the United States blood supply, servicing 3,300 hospital and more than 150 million Americans. They have also played a vital role in responding to emergency situations and natural disasters such as the September 11th attacks and Hurricane Katrina, and have developed proposals with the Department of Homeland Security and Health and Human Services to ensure rapid response and blood support. Inland Northwest Blood Center is also a part of the “hub-and-spoke” system to rapidly respond to any military requirement for blood to support our troops. For more information contact Judy Young, CEO of Inland Northwest Blood Center, at (509) 232-4422.
12.30.2008	(Washington D.C.) Freshmen Members Cathy McMorris (WA-05) and Patrick McHenry (NC-10) see eye-to-eye on many key issues, except when it comes to football. Normally working for the same team, the two will face off this Sunday as their home-state teams the Seattle Seahawks and the Carolina Panthers play for the National Football Conference Championship. To make the game more interesting, McMorris bet McHenry a Northwest salmon dinner if the Seahawks lose and McHenry will offer up a BBQ dinner if the Panthers are defeated. “The Panthers are going to be in for a rude awakening when they visit the Evergreen State and fall prey to our home-field advantage,” said McMorris. “With our flawless home record, the skills of the reigning MVP Shaun Alexander and the help of our 12th man, Seattle’s faithful fans, I have no doubt that the only rain in Seattle this Sunday will be the tears of disappointment from Congressman McHenry’s staff as they deliver us a great Carolina BBQ dinner.” “Sure, the Seahawks have yet to lose at home this season, but I’ve got two words for them: Jake Delhomme,” said McHenry. “I predict that after Sunday, my good friend Congresswoman McMorris will be sending me salmon while her Seahawks’ season sleeps with the fishes.” The two members are in their home districts for January recess and will be unable to watch the game together, although the opportunity to gloat is only a phone call away. The winner of this game will go on to play the AFC Champion, either the Pittsburgh Steelers or the Denver Broncos, in the Super Bowl.
12.30.2008	(Washington D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) met today with Major General James Hawkins, Commander of 18th Air Force at Scott Air Force Base in Illinois, to discuss the continued support and expansion of Fairchild Air Force Base and military services in Eastern Washington. “One of my top priorities is to keep our nation and community safe,” said McMorris. “I was encouraged by my discussion with Major General Hawkins that we can provide our military personnel and veterans with the adequate facilities, training, and resources necessary for them to succeed. By eliminating encroachment around the base, promoting the use of electronic medical records, and supporting military construction projects to ensure the readiness of forces we can continue to make Fairchild Air Force Base and Eastern Washington a leader in military operations.” McMorris presented Major General Hawkins with an outline of how to support and expand Fairchild Air Force Base. Her priorities include encouraging the Air Force to use Readiness Environmental Protection funds to expand the approach light system and eliminate encroachment; establishing a link that allows Fairchild Air Force Base to access electronic medical records from private health care sector physicians who have seen military personnel and veterans; supporting the co-location of military missions, which would create up to 400 jobs in Eastern Washington; and supporting military construction projects, such as Joint Personnel Recovery Agency (JRPA) facility, to enhance the readiness of the expeditionary force at Fairchild Air Force Base.
12.30.2008	(Washington D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) spent today in Olympia discussing issues important to Eastern Washington with elected state officials. Her day included meetings with Governor Chris Gregoire, Lands Commissioner Doug Sutherland, Veterans Affairs Director John Lee, and the House and Senate GOP Caucuses. “I want to become a statewide and regional leader for issues that are most important to Washington including economic growth, health care, and national security,” said McMorris. “My meetings today help to build working relationships with state officials from both parties, and allowed us to identify opportunities to work together for the greater good of Washington State.” McMorris spent the morning meeting with House and Senate GOP caucuses. She gave an update on federal issues impacting the state, including her efforts to support rural health care, expand the use of electronic medical records, and keep our communities safe from meth. She also briefed them on her role as Chairwoman of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) Task Force and the recently released draft recommendations that will help our local transportation, mining, forest, and resource industries that face timely delays under the current process. In addition, McMorris met with Lands Commissioner Doug Sutherland to discuss the state of Washington’s natural resources, which play a critical role in Eastern Washington’s economy. She also met with John Lee, Director of the Washington State Department of Veterans Affairs, to discuss the Eastern Washington Veterans cemetery. McMorris finished the afternoon by meeting with Governor Chris Gregoire about opportunities for economic development in Eastern Washington, including their joint efforts to bring the Institute for Systems Medicine to the growing research center in Spokane. Before McMorris returns to Washington D.C. she will travel to Okanogan County for meetings and events. Her schedule includes a meeting with the U.S. Forest Service, a tour of Mid-Valley Hospital District, an advisory committee meeting, and a Coffee with Cathy at Sun Valley Restaurant that is open to the pubic.
12.30.2008	(Washington D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) applauded the announcement made today by James Connaughton, Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality, to reduce the overall level of harvest and eliminate hatchery programs that impede the recovery of salmon on the Columbia and Snake River systems. “One of my top priorities is to promote economic growth for Eastern Washington and I am committed to regaining control of our waterways that provide renewable energy, transportation, and recreation opportunities to the Inland Northwest,” said McMorris. “In order to truly achieve salmon recovery we must commit to a comprehensive and collaborative management strategy. I applaud the administrations decision to build on progress in hydropower and habitat and focus on efforts related to harvest and hatchery. We should not compromise these investments by killing the fish we are trying to save.” The administration is asking for lower total allowable harvest of salmon and an end to hatchery programs that impede salmon recovery. This new direction is consistent with President Bush’s commitment to end over fishing as stated in the U.S. Ocean Action Plan. The summer spill injunction by Judge Redden costs rate payers in the Northwest $67 million without guaranteeing any fish will be saved. The Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) estimates that rates will increase by 4 to 5 percent. Environmental experts state that last summer’s spill assisted just between 25 and 300 adult salmon, meaning it cost rate payers between $250,000 to $3 million per fish. “Judge Redden’s ruling ignores progress that has been made to allow for both fish recovery and the use of dams. We need to find a more balanced approach that preserves our environment and protects the economic interests of the region. Dams have a huge impact on our economy and are important for irrigation, flood control, and low cost renewable electricity.”
12.30.2008	(Washington D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) announced today the nominations of 15 Eastern Washington students to the U.S. military academies. Interviews for the nominations were held on December 3, 2005 and conducted by a board of nine current and retired military officers. “One of my top priorities is ensuring our national security, and that starts by making sure we have the best and brightest serving in our country’s military,” said McMorris. “These nominees are the future leaders of our Armed Forces and will be proud representatives of Eastern Washington. They will have the opportunity to become commissioned officers and will be entrusted to carry on the power and prestige of our military services.” The following individuals were nominated to one or more of the military academies: Yohannes Bennehoff, ColvilleU.S. Naval Academy Jonathan Brateng, SpokaneU.S. Air Force Academy Amanda Brown, Fairchild AFBU.S. Air Force AcademyU.S. Naval AcademyU.S. Military AcademyMerchant Marine Academy Brock Chavez, Medical LakeU.S. Air Force AcademyU.S. Naval AcademyU.S. Military AcademyMerchant Marine Academy Desarea Chessar, SpokaneU.S. Military Academy Fredrick (Lee) Franklin, TonasketU.S. Naval Academy Chad Himelspach, SpokaneU.S. Air Force Academy Brian Loupe, SpokaneU.S. Air Force AcademyU.S. Military Academy Joseph Meyer, ColbertU.S. Naval AcademyU.S. Military Academy Sidney Morris, HarringtonU.S. Air Force AcademyU.S. Naval Academy James Myers, SpokaneU.S. Air Force AcademyU.S. Naval AcademyU.S. Military Academy August Pope, SpokaneU.S. Military Academy Amber Scott, ChattaroyU.S. Air Force AcademyU.S. Naval Academy Joshua Temple, Spokane ValleyU.S. Air Force AcademyU.S. Naval AcademyU.S. Military AcademyMerchant Marine Academy Benjamin Wolfram, Walla WallaU.S. Air Force Academy
12.30.2008	(Washington D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) issued the following statement in response to President Bush’s State of the Union address: “The President delivered an important message tonight. I was pleased to hear him address issues that are especially important to Eastern Washington, such as health information technology, energy independence, and the importance of spending tax payer dollars wisely. In Spokane, Inland Northwest Heath Services has developed a national model for the use of electronic medical records and health information technology has huge potential to save money within our health care system. It is important that we continue to look for ways to reduce our independence on foreign oil through conservation and explore new technologies, such as biodiesel. Finally, we must practice fiscal responsibility and eliminate government waste.”
12.30.2008	(Washington D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today was named Vice-Chair of the Resources Water and Power Subcommittee. As Vice-Chair, McMorris will assist Subcommittee Chairman George Radanovich (CA-19) in holding hearings and helping set the subcommittee’s agenda for the year. “This position will enable me to work on important water and energy issues that are key to our region’s economy,” said McMorris. “In Eastern Washington our river systems play a large role in our economy and we depend on them for renewable energy, transportation, irrigation and recreation. It is time that we regain control of our waterways and develop a balanced approach that reflects both the needs of the environment and our economy.” The Water and Power Subcommittee will focus on three main areas this year: developing more water, providing more power and reliable energy, and creating a more transparent energy system. “I am confident that as Vice-Chair of the Water and Power Subcommittee, Representative McMorris will continue to show proven leadership on Resources issues,” said Resources Chairman Richard W. Pombo (R-CA). “Cathy has shown great determination and effectiveness during her short tenure on the Committee and I commend her dedication to providing vital water and electricity supplies to her constituents.” “Cathy has worked tirelessly on behalf of Northwest electricity ratepayers and water users during the last year and her determination hasn’t gone unnoticed,” said Subcommittee Chairman George Radanovich (R-CA). “I look forward to working closely with her on our mission of developing and protecting our much-needed water and power infrastructure.” McMorris, a member of the Resources Committee, also serves on the Forest and Forest Health Subcommittee. Last April McMorris was selected by Chairman Pombo to chair a taskforce on strengthening the National Environmental Policy Act.
12.30.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today approved of President Bush’s efforts in the Fiscal Year 2007 Budget Proposal to reduce our deficit and practice fiscal responsibility, but vowed to fight the Administration on any proposals that would increase energy rates for Northwest ratepayers. “One of my top priorities is to provide economic growth for Eastern Washington, yet this cannot happen if BPA is forced to increase our energy rates,” said McMorris. “I am confident that once again the Northwest Congressional delegation will join together to successfully oppose any increases in our region’s power rates. I will continue to impress upon the House Budget Committee and the Administration that our energy rates are not artificially low and that our economy is dependent on inexpensive hydropower from our dams and rivers.” McMorris worked last year to successfully eliminate from the budget a proposal that would have required Bonneville to sell power at market-based rates, rather than at cost. The proposal would have cost the Northwest $480 million next year and $250 billion over three years. “This budget does however represent a good starting point for restoring fiscal responsibility. We must get our spending under control and make sure that we are spending tax payer dollars wisely. Every dollar we spend on an inefficient government program is one dollar that can’t be spent on help those who need it the most.” “I was also pleased to see the President’s budget include support for programs that will encourage economic growth and job creation in Eastern Washington. Reducing health care costs and improving access through health information technology, promoting the development of renewable energy technology, and strengthening our competitiveness in the global economy are all policies that will have a positive impact on our economy.”
12.30.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Last week, I had the honor of being named Vice-Chair of the Resources Water and Power Subcommittee, a position that will enable me to further my work on important water and energy issues that are key to our region’s economy. For example, in June the Water and Power Subcommittee held a hearing in Clarkston on the impact of the Endangered Species Act (ESA) on the Snake and Columbia River systems and I am pleased that my new role as Vice-Chair will allow me to continue to bring these crucial issues to the national forefront. Both in Congress and while working in the state legislature, I have found that we are often burdened with excessive regulations that ultimately lead to activist judges legislating from the bench. We have a system of checks and balances and laws should come from officials who are elected by the people and to whom they entrust that responsibility. This is the root of the problem that we are currently experiencing with our river systems in the Pacific Northwest. Last June, Judge Redden issued an injunction requiring the agencies to provide for summer spill over some of the dams in the Columbia and Snake River system to protect salmon going out to sea. This was against the recommendation that spill actually hurts, not helps, salmon according to the National Oceanic & Atmosphere Administration, Bonneville Power Administration, Corps of Engineers, and the Bureau of Reclamation. We wouldn’t let a judge dictate how we use our federal highway system and we shouldn’t let one tell us how to use our river systems. The summer spill injunction by Judge Redden ignores the progress that has been made to allow for both fish recovery and the use of dams and we must get this decision out of the courts and back into the communities. Our goal must be to find a balanced approach that preserves our environment and protects the economic interests of the region. James Connaughton, Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ), made a recent announcement that the Administration will be reducing the overall level of harvest and eliminating hatchery programs that impede recovery of salmon. Up until now, our efforts have mainly been focused on hydropower and habitat, while neglecting the impact of harvest and hatchery. I applaud the administration’s decision and believe we should not compromise these investments by killing the fish we are trying to save. The only way to truly achieve salmon recovery is to commit to a comprehensive and collaborative management strategy. The Pacific Northwest depends on inexpensive renewable energy from our dams. The summer spill injunction imposed by Judge Redden costs rate payers in the Northwest $67 million a year, without guaranteeing that a single fish will be saved. Due to the mandate, the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) estimates that rates will increase by four to five percent. Environmental experts state that last summer’s spill assisted between 25 to 30 adult salmon, meaning it cost rates payers between $250,000 to $3 million per fish. This year I hope to introduce legislation that would require Power Administrations to list direct and indirect costs associated with ESA compliance as a line item on customer’s power bills. These extra costs equate to a salmon tax and I believe that customers should have the right to know how much salmon recovery is costing them and their family. It is crucial that we work to protect our dams and rivers and recognize the vital role they play in Eastern Washington’s economy. We depend on our rivers and dams for energy, transportation, irrigation and recreation and I will continue this year to fight for what’s best for the Pacific Northwest. It is my hope that the passage of the Threatened Endangered Species Act, my work as chair of the National Environmental Policy Act taskforce, and my new position as Vice-Chair of the Water and Power Subcommittee will help alleviate some of the conflict between protecting the salmon and our rights to our river system.
12.30.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) announced today that she is holding a funding workshop in Spokane on Friday, March 24th at Whitworth College. The workshop will include presentations by key federal, state and community partners on how to maximize funding opportunities for projects and businesses in Eastern Washington. "One of my top priorities is to provide economic growth for Eastern Washington," said McMorris. "It is important that our businesses and community groups have all the resources and information they need in order to capitalize on funding opportunities. There are federal dollars available for community infrastructure and projects and our goal is to make sure people know what avenues to take so these funds are accessible." The workshop will focus on funding opportunities at the federal, state, and local levels; partnering with other organizations to strengthen funding requests; and providing tips on successful grant and funding requests. The workshop will include information booths by government agencies, breakout sessions, panel discussions, as well as special presentations by: James Whitfield, HHS, Regional Director John Meyers, HUD, Regional Director Donna Foxely, ED, Secretary¡¦s Regional Representative Katie Root, grants.gov, Representative John DeVaney, USDA-RD, State Director Nancy Gilbertson, SBA, District Director Those interested in registering for the workshop can call the Spokane District office at (509) 353-2374.
12.30.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today praised Secretary of Energy Samuel Bodman’s statement before the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee that he would discuss a proposed rule change in the President’s FY2007 budget with the Northwest delegation and the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) before taking any action. “It is crucial that the administration fully understands the details of our energy infrastructure in the Pacific Northwest before they make permanent changes that will stick our rate payers with a ten percent rate increase,” said McMorris. “The economy of Eastern Washington depends on having low energy rates and I will continue to do everything in my power to make sure these proposed changes do not happen. I applaud Senator Craig (R-ID) and Smith (R-OR) for bringing this issue to the attention of Secretary Bodman at today’s hearing.” McMorris will be speaking in front of the House Budget Committee on Tuesday about the impact of BPA rate increases.
12.30.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) testified to the House Budget Committee today on the impact that the President’s FY 2007 budget will have on Eastern Washington. While highlighting the funding that will go towards fighting meth, advancing the use of health information technology, and developing a 21st century workforce, she also criticized the budget for inadequate funding of rural health care and a proposed rule change that would increase energy rates for Northwest customers. “The President’s budget includes funding for projects that will protect what’s important to Eastern Washington, such as growing our economy; ensuring access to quality, affordable health care; and keeping our nation and community safe,” said McMorris. “However, I am very concerned about the lack of funding for rural health care and we should not allow the money for crucial programs to be zeroed out. We are already facing a health care shortage in our rural communities, and cutting these programs will only exacerbate the health care crisis.” Last year McMorris was successful in getting $90 million restored to rural health care programs. “I will also continue working to ensure changes are not made to BPA’s debt repayment structure. It worries me that this rule change would not need Congressional approval, and we must keep drawing attention to the devastating impacts this will have on our economy. Our rate payers are already paying higher costs due to salmon recovery and this proposal would hinder many people’s ability to pay their monthly bills. I am confident that the Northwest delegation will not rest until this proposed rule change is withdrawn.” A copy of McMorris’ testimony to the Budget Committee is attached. Testimony of Congresswoman Cathy McMorrisCommittee on the BudgetFebruary 14, 2006 Mr. Chairman, Members of the Committee – Thank you for allowing me to speak on the importance of the Fiscal Year 2007 Budget Resolution and its impact on Eastern Washington. My primary reason in testifying today is to discuss several important budget items the Committee will soon consider, including fighting meth, ensuring quality, affordable health care, training our 21st century workforce and provisions regarding the Bonneville Power Administration. And, above all, support the President’s efforts to control spending and eliminate the deficit. One of my top priorities in Congress is to keep our nation, and communities, safe. In Eastern Washington, we deal on a daily basis with the devastating effects of methamphetamine (meth) and other drug abuse. In Spokane alone, it is estimated that 80% of crime and 90% of check fraud is drug and meth related. In 2004, Washington ranked 6th in total meth seizures, ahead of California. Imagine the increased safety of our communities if meth production and abuse were reduced, and substance abuse programs were more effective. That is why I strongly support the President’s call for $40 million towards meth lab cleanup, as well as a proposed $69 million to increase our nation’s drug courts to offer treatment and alternatives for non-violent offenders. Creating a technical and educated workforce is key in promoting economic development in Eastern Washington and throughout our region and nation. I support the President’s call towards advancing our 21st Century Workforce. Specifically, I applaud the proposal for the High Growth Job Training Initiative, as well as the Career Advancement Accounts to assist workers who are entering the workforce, transitioning to new jobs, or advancing in their current jobs. In addition to building our workforce and encouraging economic growth, we must also maintain a healthcare system that is affordable and accessible. That is why I strongly urge the Committee to maintain the President’s budget request of $169 million for health information technology programs. National coordination on Health IT is vital in streamlining systems, reducing overall medical costs, improving quality of care, and strengthening preventative medicine. The use of health technology throughout Eastern Washington has led to more efficient patient treatment, expanded rural health, and improved doctor care. Strengthening and improving Health IT is essential to the future of healthcare. Though I recognize the increased funding for the Office of Rural Health Policy, Telehealth and Community Health Centers, the overall proposal for rural health is insufficient. There are many programs at the center of our rural health infrastructure which are proposed to be zeroed out, including Rural Hospital Flexibility Grants and all of Title VII, which funds our Area Health Education Centers. These grants have demonstrated an essential link between Critical Access Hospitals and providers, increasing quality of care, and producing collaboration for these safety net hospitals within our communities. My district stretches over 23,000 square miles. Much of that distance is rural, creating considerable challenge in ensuring access to health care for Eastern Washington residents. We continue to see increasing shortage of health care professionals. In towns like Odessa, Republic and Davenport primary care coverage is sparse. People in our rural region deserve to have access to the same quality of care as people in large, urban areas. I will work to restore increased funding for critical rural health programs. Though the President’s budget provides many great initiatives, there is one specific proposal that I believe could be detrimental to the economy and livelihoods of people of the Northwest. This proposal is the expedited debt retiring provisions affecting the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA). As you may be aware, the Bonneville Power Administration markets electric power from a series of hydroelectric dams within Eastern Washington, and throughout several other Northwest States. One of my top priorities is to provide economic growth for our region, part of which is ensuring affordable energy. The Pacific Northwest economy was built on inexpensive renewable energy. This rule proposal would seize a portion of BPA’s future revenue and use it towards an escalating repayment of its federal debt, essentially reversing BPA’s ability to use its sale of surplus power to decrease electricity rates in the northwest. The surplus is often assumed during good water years in the Northwest, years which can often be few and far between. BPA needs the revenue from this surplus not to pay down a debt which BPA is already ahead of paying off, but to use for flexibility in those years in which they must adjust to other conditions. However, debt repayment is not the issue here. In fact, BPA has already prepaid the Treasury $1.46 billion in the last five years, and plans to continue additional debt prepayments in the future. A proposal such as this could raise rates as high as 10 percent and will have an enormous impact in our region – a region where electricity rates are almost 50% higher than those in place before the 2001 energy crisis. This increase would build upon the already increased rates we are paying for salmon recovery costs. In 2004 alone, BPA paid over $414 million towards salmon recovery programs, costs which are expected to rise within the next several years. That high cost is then absorbed by every individual customer, translating to 21% of their bill. Between salmon rates and the effects of the Administration’s proposal on BPA, energy consumers will simply not be able to foot the bill. At a time of rising energy and electricity costs around the country, a proposal that effectively increases these rates in Washington, Idaho, Montana and Oregon is simply not acceptable. It is my understanding that although this provision is in the President’s budget, it would not need Congressional approval, but rather would be implemented by a simple rulemaking procedure by the Administration. This is of great concern to me, and something I will continue to work on with my colleagues in the House and Senate to prevent. Our communities and businesses are dependent on the low cost energy rates which BPA provides. These same businesses operate because of these low electric rates, and will face major problems should this proposal be enacted. In summary I believe funding to help combat our nation’s drug problems, improve the quality of health care, and provide economic opportunities, all of which are supported in the President’s budget, will help carry our nation forward. Once again Mr. Chairman, thank you for your time and I look forward to your leadership as we move forward on the 2007 budget.
12.30.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) announced today that the U.S. Secretary of Education, Margaret Spellings, accepted her invitation to visit Spokane on Thursday, February 23. Secretary Spellings will be visiting a school and host a roundtable with educators, parents and local business leaders on the importance of math and science in our education system. “I am pleased that Secretary Spellings agreed to come to Eastern Washington and will have the opportunity to talk directly to our educators on how we can better prepare our students to be competitive in our global economy,” said McMorris. “Our country lags far behind in the number of students who are pursuing college degrees in math and science related fields. Elementary and secondary education is the time when we need to support and encourage our student’s math and science interest.” Specific locations and times for the Secretary’s visit have yet to be determined.
12.30.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) released the following statement today regarding the Administration’s decision to hand over the contract of several major US ports to a company based out of the United Arab Emirates: “One of my top priorities is to ensure our national security and I am greatly concerned with the President and the Administration’s decision to move ahead with this deal that impacts several of our biggest and busiest ports in the U.S.,” said McMorris. “Ever since September 11th, our country has had a heightened awareness in national security issues. Our ports play a large role in our nation’s economy and we must ensure they remain protected.” “I remain disappointed with the President’s firm stance on this issue and believe we must take a hard look at it before moving forward. It is appropriate for Congress to ask questions, further examine any potential security risks, and gain a firm understanding of any consequences associated with this deal.”
12.30.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris, Vice-Chair of the Water and Power Subcommittee, conducted an oversight hearing today on "How the Federal Power Marketing Administrations are Implementing the Energy Policy Act of 2005 and an Assessment of the Proposed Fiscal Year 2007 Budgets for these Agencies." “Today’s hearing highlighted that hydropower is a clean, reliable source of energy for the Pacific Northwest and our nation,” said McMorris. “Eastern Washington’s economy was built on inexpensive renewable energy from our dams and our communities and businesses depend on the benefits of low-cost federal power.” The hearing featured testimony from Western electricity customers and administrators of each of the four Power Marketing Administrations (PMAs) on the value of federal hydropower generation and transmission to our Nation's communities. Dan Peterson, Pend Oreille County Public Utility District Commissioner, testified at the hearing on the impact of the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) rule change in the 2007 budget. In the Pacific Northwest, 40 percent of electricity sales and 75 percent of the transmission come from the BPA. “The Northwest produces much of the cleanest power in the nation,” said Peterson. “At a time when the President is urging our nation to wean itself off of foreign oil and showcase renewable energy, it makes no sense to arbitrarily increase the cost of a large, clean, domestic hydro resource. The budget proposal, if implemented, will raise rates. It sets bad precedent, hurts my neighbor PUD, and could do unnecessary damage to the Pacific Northwest region.” “This proposal is designed to circumvent Congressional approval,” said Chairman Richard W. Pombo. “Members from both parties today joined together against this rate impacting proposal. Making hydropower more expensive at a time of increasing energy prices and against the bipartisan will of Congress is not the best way to solve our energy problems.” “Dan Peterson’s testimony was useful in accessing the direct impact that will be felt as a result of BPA rate changes,” said McMorris. “The Administration’s proposal of requiring Bonneville to use surplus revenues to reduce debt sounds good on paper, but it ignores the reality that debt is already being repaid. It also could raise electricity rates by a projected 10 percent, hurting Northwest consumers and crippling an agency that needs financial flexibility.” Last month, McMorris testified to the House Budget Committee and criticized the proposed rule change that would increase energy rates for Pacific Northwest customers.
12.30.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today questioned U.S. Air Force Commanders General Norton Schwartz and General Duncan McNabb about the long-term health of the KC-135 air refueling tanker fleet. The Commanders were testifying at an Armed Services Hearing on the Fiscal Year 2007 National Defense Authorization budget request from the United States Transportation Command and Component Commands. “One of my top priorities is to keep our nation safe, and I am working to ensure that our men and women have the newest and best equipment in order to get the job done,” said McMorris. “Fairchild Air Force Base is currently home to an overstressed active duty fleet of aging air refueling tankers. Current planes are already experiencing problems and we cannot afford to wait another 35 years to get replacement tankers.” The Air Force predicts that complete replacement of the KC-135 fleet will take between 25-35 years, meaning that some planes will be over 80 years old before they are replaced. Costs of maintaining the aging fleet, which is the oldest in the Air Force, are also increasing. The Air Force estimates that maintaining the KC-135 tankers would cost $46.8 billion through 2040. General Schwartz and General McNabb both expressed concern over the uncertainty of the aging KC-135s and stated the need for more capable aircraft that can meet the increasing demands of modern threats and environments.
12.30.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today introduced the Endangered Species Compliance and Transparency Act of 2006 (H.R. 4857). The bill requires Power Marketing Administrations, including the Bonneville Power Administration, to provide each wholesale firm customer a list of direct and indirect cost estimates associated with compliance under the Endangered Species Act (ESA). “Whether or not you agree with how the Endangered Species Act is being implemented is not the point of this legislation,” said McMorris. “This bill simply gives customers the right to know how much of the federal government’s ESA costs are being passed on to the electricity consumer, who can then decide whether or not these expenditures are being spent effectively.” ESA costs related to endangered salmon have risen considerably over the last several years due to federal court-mandates and other compliance programs. In 2004, one mandated spill cost the federal government $77 million in lost hydropower generation in the Pacific Northwest. Another spill this year helped make the Bonneville Power Administration the federal agency with the highest ESA compliance costs in the Nation. According to the BPA, last summer’s spill assisted between 25 to 300 adult salmon, meaning it cost rates payers between $250,000 to $3 million per fish. By law, the agency passes on all of these costs to its wholesale customers, who in turn forward the costs on to the retail electricity consumer. Direct costs associated with compliance include study-related costs, capital, operations, maintenance, replacement costs and staffing costs. Indirect costs include forgone generation and replacement power costs. Co-sponsors of the bill include Doc Hastings (WA-04), Greg Walden (OR-02), Butch Otter (ID -01), and Mike Simpson (ID-02).
12.30.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today announced that Senator Larry Craig, Chairman of the U.S. Senate Veteran’s Affairs Committee, has accepted her invitation to accompany the Congresswoman on a tour of the Jonathan M. Wainwright Memorial Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Walla Walla on Monday, March 20th. “One of my top priorities is to provide access to quality, affordable health care,” said McMorris. “We made a promise to our veterans that they would be taken care of and we must follow through with that commitment by ensuring that they have access to the best health care possible. The Walla Walla VA Medical Center serves veterans from Washington, Idaho and Oregon and I am pleased that Senator Craig has agreed to accompany me on this trip so he can get a firsthand look at the current facility and the needs of our region’s veterans.” “Many veterans from Idaho use the Walla Walla facility each year, so as both a senator from Idaho and chairman of the Senate Veterans’ Affairs, I have a unique interest in seeing the facility in action. I look forward to meeting the staff and the veterans there,” Craig said. The Jonathan M. Wainwright Medical Center serves over 64, 000 veterans in 12 counties in Southeastern Washington, Northeastern Oregon and Central Idaho. McMorris has taken numerous steps to ensure that veterans continue to receive the care they deserve: she has rallied our Northwest Congressional delegation, toured the VA facility in Walla Walla, and held meetings with the CARES Commission and Local Advisory Panel. This spring, Veterans Affairs Secretary James Nicholson will also be touring the Wainwright Medical Center, per McMorris’ invitation.
12.30.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today voted in favor of H.R. 4472 The Children’s Safety and Violent Crime Reduction Act of 2006. McMorris is a co-sponsor of this legislation that enforces stricter penalties for sex offenders and helps prevent the future exploitation of children. “One of my top priorities is to keep our nation and communities safe,” said McMorris. “We must do everything in our power to protect our children and keep them out of sexual predators reach. Our community has experienced firsthand the tragedy of having our children fall prey to sexual predators and we must take action to prevent this from happening again. The creation of a public sex offender website is an especially important tool for empowering families and communities so they can keep our children safe.” Nearly 100,000 sex offenders remain unregistered, and are moving freely about the country. Most recent high-profile abductions crimes were all committed by previously-convicted sex offenders. According to the US Department of Justice, sex offenders are four times more likely to be rearrested and child molesters on average only serve 43 percent of their sentence. In order to keep our communities and families safe, the Children’s Safety Act will do the following: Improve the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Program to ensure that sex offenders register – and keep current – where they reside, work, and attend school; Create the Dru Sjodin National Sex Offender Public Website to search for sex offender information in each community; Require states to notify each other when sex offenders move from one state to another; Create a new criminal penalty of up to a maximum of 20 years for sex offenders who fail to comply with registration requirements; and Protect foster children from sexual abuse and exploitation and increase criminal penalties for child sexual predators.
12.30.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today highlighted the importance of the Methamphetamine Epidemic Elimination Act, which was included in the conference report of H.R. 3199, the USA Patriot and Terrorism Prevention Reauthorization Act of 2005. This bill is the first-ever to include comprehensive anti-meth legislation. “One of my top priorities is to keep our nation and communities safe,” said McMorris. “In Eastern Washington, we deal on a daily basis with the devastating effects of meth and other drug abuse. The use of meth has numerous social costs and leads to increases in crime. This legislation will help stop the spread of meth by making it more difficult to obtain the necessary ingredients to manufacture meth and by tightening criminal penalties for those who traffic in this dangerous drug.” In Spokane it is estimated that 80% of crime and 90% of check fraud is drug and meth related. In 2004, Washington ranked 6th in the country in total meth seizures, ahead of California. McMorris is a member of The Congressional Caucus to Fight and Control Methamphetamine. The Caucus works to raise national awareness of the dangers posed by meth abuse and to advance strong public policy to fight against meth manufacturing, distribution, and use. The Methamphetamine Epidemic Elimination Act will do the following to reduce the supply of meth and punish meth producers, traffickers, and smugglers: Restrict the sale of precursor drugs (common, over-the-counter medicines used in the production of meth); Require exporters and importers to report on their traffic of precursor drugs to prevent diversion of these drugs to meth production; and Toughen federal penalties for methamphetamine traffickers and smugglers as well as those who produce or deal meth in the presence of children.
12.30.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) announced today that the city of Spokane received a $20,400 grant from the national Preserve America Program, which recognizes cities for their commitment to historic preservation. McMorris accepted the award on behalf of the city at an awards ceremony in Washington D.C. with First Lady Laura Bush and U.S. Secretary of Interior Gale Norton. “One of my top priorities is to promote economic development and I want to commend the city of Spokane for its efforts to grow the economy while still maintaining the historic tradition of the city,” said McMorris. “Through the revitalization of downtown and the restoration of key historical landmarks, such as the Davenport Hotel, Fox Theater and the old city hall, Spokane will continue to grow and bring in tourists from across the country.” “We are very pleased that the City of Spokane received the Preserve America Grant in the first round of national grant funding,” said Mayor Dennis Hession, “and we’re particularly pleased that Congresswoman McMorris was able to receive the award this week in Washington, D.C. on Spokane’s behalf. "This grant will enable the City to work with its partners at the Convention and Visitors Bureau, Downtown Spokane Partnership and Museum of Arts and Culture to produce marketing materials for several upcoming important events, such as the 2007 U.S. Figure Skating Championships & the Neighborhoods USA conference," Hession said. Spokane was designated as a Preserve America Community in 2005, which made it eligible to apply for this first round of grant funding. The City of Spokane’s grant application was for a marketing campaign called “Experience Historic Spokane. The marketing materials will promote the historic character of downtown, and will include a plaque program, a web site, and a tourism brochure. Preserve America is a White House initiative to encourage and support community efforts for the preservation and enjoyment of our priceless cultural and natural heritage. The goals of the initiative include a greater shared knowledge about the Nation’s past, strengthened regional identities and local pride, increased local participation in preserving the country’s cultural and natural heritage assets, and support for the economic vitality of our communities. For more information visit this website.
12.30.2008	(Washington, D.C.) The United States Chamber of Commerce today presented Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) with its prestigious “Spirit of Enterprise” award for her strong support for pro-economic growth legislation in the first session of the 109th Congress. “One of my top priorities in Congress to promote economic growth and job creation,” said McMorris. “I am honored to have received this recognition from the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and will continue to support legislation that will help our Eastern Washington businesses remain competitive and successful.” “Cathy is a leader who has fought for legislation to spur job creation, increase productivity and keep our economy growing strong,” said Thomas J. Donohue, Chamber President and CEO. “We’re proud to present her with this award on behalf of America’s businesses, both large and small.” The Chamber awards the “Spirit of Enterprise” based on rankings it gives members of Congress for key business votes outlined in its annual publication, How They Voted. McMorris received a score of 93 percent for her pro-economic growth votes last year. Chamber-designated “key votes” are recorded floor votes on issues established as priorities by the Chamber’s board of directors and on which the Chamber communicates its position prior to the vote. Members of Congress who support the Chamber’s position on at least 70 percent of key votes receive the “Spirit of Enterprise” award. For the first session of the 109th Congress, the Chamber scored 27 House votes as key votes. Key votes for 2005 included the class action reform, bankruptcy reform, a comprehensive energy bill, transportation reauthorization legislation, and the U.S. Dominican Republic-Central America Free Trade Agreement.
12.30.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today chaired a Resources Committee hearing on her bill H.R. 4857, The Endangered Species Compliance and Transparency Act of 2006. The bill requires Power Marketing Administrations, including the Bonneville Power Administration, to provide each wholesale firm customer a list of direct and indirect cost estimates associated with compliance under the Endangered Species Act (ESA). “The hearing today emphasized the need for transparency within our federal agencies,” said McMorris. “BPA estimates that they have spent approximately $500 million annually on ESA-related compliance costs in recent years – a cost that gets passed down to individual rate payers. Customers have a rate to know what they are paying for so they can then make a fully informed decision on whether this money is being spent appropriately and effectively.” “This legislation provides electricity consumers with clarity and explanation of where some of their money is being spent,” said House Resources Committee Chairman Richard W. Pombo (R-CA). “Anyone who wants more cost transparency and information on their electricity bill should be for this common-sense legislation.” The hearing included testimony from three power customers, an environmental expert and two federal officials. Kris Mikkelson, CEO of Inland Power and Light in Spokane testified at the hearing on the challenges associated with obtaining ESA compliance costs and the need for transparency. Inland Power and Light is one of the few power customers that already list ESA compliance costs on billing statements. “We feel our customers have the right to know what ESA compliance is costing them, yet obtaining the data we need to print this information on our bills has been a challenge,” said Mikkelson. “Ratepayers expect clear answers about rising bills and it is critical that utilities have the information they need to adequately explain increases. Having good numbers and easy access to ESA costs will go a long way in helping the region’s utilities, regardless of their size, or level of sophistication, to provide good information to their consumers.” ESA costs related to endangered salmon have risen considerably over the last several years due to federal court-mandates and other compliance programs. In 2004, one mandated spill cost the federal government $77 million in lost hydropower generation in the Pacific Northwest. Another spill this year helped make the Bonneville Power Administration the federal agency with the highest ESA compliance costs in the Nation. According to the BPA, last summer’s spill assisted between 25 to 300 adult salmon, meaning it cost rates payers between $250,000 to $3 million per fish. By law, the agency passes on all of these costs to its wholesale customers, who in turn forward the costs on to the retail electricity consumer.
12.30.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) made the following statement today regarding Governor Dirk Kempthorne's nomination to be secretary of the Interior: "I commend President Bush for his nomination of Governor Kempthorne and believe he will be a strong advocate for our natural resources community here in Eastern Washington. Kempthorne has first-hand knowledge of our resource issues here in the West and has proven that he can work effectively in bipartisan manner to get results. He will bring common-sense solutions to our resource issues and continue with the nation's goal of conserving our land, water and air resources."
12.30.2008	(Washington, D.C.) The Critical Access Hospitals of Washington State awarded Congresswoman Cathy McMorris with a plaque this week for her work to improve access to rural health care. She was honored at the Northwest Regional Critical Access Hospital Conference in Spokane by Andrew Craigie, President, Association of Washington Public Hospitals; Charlotte Hardt, Director, Eastern Washington Area Health Education Center; and Tom Martin, Administrator, Lincoln County Public Health District 3. The plaque awarded to McMorris reads: "In grateful recognition and with the greatest appreciation for her extraordinary efforts to ensure the residents of rural Washington have access to high quality medical care, The Critical Access Hospitals in Washington State offer their most sincere thanks and strongest statement of support to the United State Representative Cathy McMorris." "In the state legislature, and now in Congress, access to quality, affordable health care continues to be one of my top priorities," said McMorris. "I will continue to strengthen health care delivery in rural areas and ensure adequate funding for essential rural health programs. I oppose the proposed elimination of funding for Title VII, Title VIII and Rural Health funding, which provides Rural Health Flexibility Grants, Area Health Education Centers and numerous other rural health initiatives. These grants have demonstrated an essential link between Critical Access Hospitals and providers, increasing quality of care, and producing collaboration for these safety net hospitals within our communities." During her first term in Congress, McMorris has supported legislation that will increase access to quality, affordable health care for rural areas: Introduced legislation to protect the rural health training program known as WWAMI (Washington, Wyoming, Alaska, Montana, and Idaho) which effectively addresses the shortage of health care professionals in rural areas. Sponsored the Medicaid Access Project through Information Technology Act (H.R. 4331) to establish demonstration projects to improve access to health care through information technology. Sponsored the Community Pharmacy Fairness Act (H.R. 1671), which allows community pharmacies to negotiate collectively for drug reimbursements-which should reduce overall costs. Voted for Association Health Plans that allow small business employers to band together in order to purchase health insurance at a lower cost for their employees.
12.30.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) sent a letter today to Budget Committee Chairman Jim Nussle and ranking Budget Committee Member John Spratt urging their continued support for the Perkins Loan program, which is slated to be eliminated in the Administration’s FY07 budget proposal. The letter, circulated by McMorris and Nita Lowey (D-NY), has received bipartisan support and was signed by 89 Congressional members. “I am committed to ensuring that every student has access to higher education,” said McMorris. “The Perkins Loan program provides valuable financial assistance to disadvantaged students who might not otherwise be able to attend college. At a time when we are focusing on growing our economy and creating a competitive workforce, we must realize that this all begins with providing students with access to a quality education.” The Perkins Loan program has offered long-term, low-interest loans to students for nearly fifty years. This program is aimed at a specific need-based population of students, offering them a fixed 5 percent interest rate on the loan. The program also includes important loan forgiveness provisions for fields that address specific areas of national need. McMorris worked with Republican and Democrats last year to get funding restored to the Perkins Loan Program when it was slated to be eliminated in the FY06 budget. A copy of the letter is below. March 28, 2006 Dear Chairman Nussle and Ranking Member Spratt: As the Committee begins to draft the House Budget Resolution for Fiscal Year 2007, we urge you to include in your proposal support for the 2007 Perkins Loan program, which has again been slated for elimination. Due to wide-spread Congressional support during the FY 2006 budget cycle, this critical program was retained. The current proposal would recall the federal portion of the 2007 Perkins Loan collections from revolving funds administered by nearly 1,800 participating post-secondary institutions around the nation. It is important that we continue to show support for the Perkins Loan program by protecting the revolving fund and maintaining the Perkins Cancellations option in this year’s House Budget Resolution. The Perkins Loan program has offered long-term, low-interest loans for nearly fifty years, providing financial assistance to more than 10,000,000 students. This program is aimed at a specific need-based population of students, offering them a fixed 5 percent interest rate on the loan. In comparison, Stafford Loans will be fixed at 6.8 percent as of July 1, 2006, thus underscoring the need to ensure continued access to students who meet the low-income eligibility threshold. Perkins Loans are available for undergraduate, graduate and professional studies and include important loan forgiveness provisions for fields that address specific areas of national need such as teaching, nursing, military, social work, law enforcement, childcare and public safety. Post-secondary institutions administer the program on their own campuses, thus saving considerable administrative costs for the government. Schools also match part of the government contribution with their own funds, stretching federal dollars so that for every federal dollar invested in this program, state or institutional funds are leveraged to multiply the benefits of federal investment. The elimination of the Perkins Loan program would create obstacles rather than opportunity for thousands of students who aspire to higher education. We strongly urge the Committee to support the Perkins Loan Program and reject any proposal to eliminate this vital program. Sincerely, CATHY MCMORRISMember of Congress (R-WA) NITA LOWEY Member of Congress(D-NY)
12.30.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today offered the bipartisan American Competitiveness Amendment to H.R. 609: The College Access and Opportunity Act. The amendment strengthens American competitiveness by increasing the number of teachers qualified to teach advanced placement courses and authorizing the recruitment of well-qualified Americans to serve as adjunct teachers in secondary school. The amendment passed by a bipartisan vote of 293-134. “Keeping America competitive is a necessity in which both Republicans and Democrats are in agreement,” said McMorris. “Today, over half of China’s undergraduate degrees are in math, science, technology and engineering. Yet, only 16 percent of American undergraduates pursue these fields. We can and must do better. I applaud the President for his continual leadership on this issue.” The amendment follows up on the President’s State of the Union proposal to enhance America’s leadership in science and technology. It provides additional uses of state grant and partnership grant funds under Title II, Teacher Quality Enhancement Grants, to authorize advanced placement activities designed to increase the number of teachers qualified to teach advanced placement and pre-advanced placement courses in mathematics, science, and critical foreign languages, particularly for low-income students. Secondly, the amendment authorizes the Secretary of Education, under the Byrd Honors Scholarship Program, to award grants to recruit and place well-qualified individuals to serve as adjunct teachers in secondary school mathematics, science, and critical foreign language courses. It also establishes comprehensive teacher preparation programs to encourage students to advance from elementary school through college while achieving proficiency in critical foreign languages. “We need to be tapping the resources and expertise of current and retired math and science professionals who can help with the education of our youth,” continued McMorris. “For example, this bill would allow a well-qualified individual such as Bill Gates to teach computer science courses to high school students. This will help our rural schools that often face difficulties recruiting qualified teachers to teach math, science and foreign language courses, to take advantage of this expertise; and also help our high-tech companies that need access to a trained workforce in order to remain competitive in the global economy.” This amendment is supported by numerous groups including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the National Association of Manufacturers (NAM), the Business Roundtable and the Information Technology Industry Council, TechNet and the New Democrat Coalition.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today voted in favor of H.R. 609, The College Access and Opportunity Act. The bill strengthens and improves the nation's higher education system by expanding college access for low and middle-income students and increasing America¡¦s competitiveness. "Being the first in my family to go to college, I recognize the importance of making higher education accessible for those who wish to attend," said McMorris. "Providing access to higher education plays a vital part in Eastern Washington's economic growth and the ability of our high-tech companies to have a skilled workforce. By placing well-qualified teachers in the classroom and creating incentives for pursuing degrees in math, science and foreign languages, we will create a 21st Century Workforce that is prepared to be competitive in the global marketplace." Recognizing the need to keep America competitive, McMorris yesterday introduced a bipartisan amendment to the bill that will strengthen competitiveness by increasing the number of teachers qualified to teach advanced placement courses and authorizing the recruitment of well-qualified Americans to serve as adjunct teachers in secondary school. The amendment passed by a bipartisan vote of 293-134. The College Access and Opportunity Act expands access to higher education and protects the interests of students by: Providing additional Pell Grant assistance for high-achieving first- and second-year college students; Strengthening international and foreign-language study programs; Providing scholarships and student loan relief for students who receive degrees in math, science and foreign languages; Eliminating the State as Accreditor provision; and Striking the College Affordability Index provision, while still maintaining transparency in tuition and cost increases. As part of her continual efforts to improve access to higher education, McMorris sent a letter earlier this week to Budget Committee Chairman Jim Nussle and ranking Budget Committee Member John Spratt urging their continued support for the Perkins Loan program, which is slated to be eliminated in the Administration's FY07 budget proposal. The letter received bipartisan support and was signed by 89 Congressional members.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) will be joined by local, state and federal community members for a crime and drug enforcement town hall meeting on Thursday, April 13th from 10:30 am – 12:00 pm at Community Colleges of Spokane, Colville Campus – Rendezvous Theatre 985 S. Elm Street Colville, WA 99114. “One of my top priorities is to keep our communities safe,” said McMorris. “Methamphetamine use and drug related crimes are a serious problem within our communities and I want to bring everyone together, including community members and law enforcement, to fight this problem head on. We all must do our part to reduce crimes in our communities and give our children a safe place to live.” Children are often innocent victims of meth abuse. When children are taken away from a meth home they cannot bring anything with them – not even a blanket or teddy bear. To address this unique need of children in drug homes, McMorris encourages people to bring a stuffed animal to the town hall to donate to local law enforcement. Town hall panelists include: Greg Gassett, Assistant Special Agent in Charge, Seattle Field Division, Drug Enforcement Administration Rob McKenna, Washington State Attorney General Craig Thayer, Stevens County Sheriff Mike Kessler, Commander of the Colville Tribal Police Department Dr. John Roll, Assistant Director, Washington Institute for Mental Illness Research and Training at Washington State University
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Citing concerns about privacy Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) and Congressman Doc Hastings (WA-04) urged the IRS to reexamine a proposal that would expand access to taxpayer information. “Privacy concerns continue to rise and consumers are finding it increasingly difficult and cumbersome to keep their personal information safe,” the lawmakers noted in a letter to IRS Commissioner Mark Everson. The IRS is considering a proposal to change privacy rules related to tax returns. The proposal contains several provisions that would strengthen privacy. However, McMorris and Hastings are concerned about a specific provision that would allow for wider use of personal information by allowing tax preparers to share taxpayer information with “unaffiliated” groups with the consent of the taxpayer. Under current law, that information can only be shared with “affiliated” groups. Today the IRS held a public hearing on the proposed regulations. The lawmakers said they are “hopeful that after reviewing public comments, the IRS will develop final rules that fully enhance privacy standards.” A copy of the letter is below. March 31, 2006 The Honorable Mark W. EversonCommissionerInternal Revenue Service1111 Constitution Avenue, N.W.Washington, D.C. 20224 Dear Commissioner Everson: We are writing to share our concerns with a proposed rule that would expand the number of third parties allowed access to taxpayer information. We urge you to carefully review and consider this provision and make taxpayer privacy a priority as you develop a final regulation that increases taxpayer privacy. Privacy concerns continue to rise and consumers are finding it increasingly difficult and cumbersome to keep their personal information safe. We understand the need to tighten IRS privacy standards and appreciate your efforts to provide customers a warning and limit the time period for which consent is valid. However, not including the “affiliated group” limitation that is currently in place will allow for wider sharing of personal information and will further fuel taxpayer privacy concerns. We recognize the need for taxpayers to enlist the help of tax preparers because of our complicated tax code. It is our hope that in the near future our complicated tax code will be simplified to allow taxpayers to prepare and submit their own tax returns. Until that day is here, we urge to reexamine the proposed rule and make necessary changes to ensure taxpayer privacy. We appreciate your consideration of this request. Sincerely, Cathy McMorrisMember of Congress Doc HastingsMember of Congress
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) and Chief of Staff Connie Partoyan departed today on a military Congressional Delegation to Iraq. While in Iraq, McMorris will meet with Colonel Hanson and the troops from Fairchild’s 92nd Air Refueling Wing who are serving throughout Iraq. “One of my top priorities is to ensure our national security and I look forward to being on the ground with our troops in order to get a first hand perspective of the War on Terror,” said McMorris. “I was at Fairchild Air Force Base in January when our troops were deployed. I am excited to see them again and to show my continued support. The troops will be reminded how proud everyone is of the job they are doing and of the importance of eliminating terrorist organizations in order to make the world a safer place.” This is the first trip to Iraq for McMorris, who is a member of the House Armed Services Committee. While in Iraq, she will visit with troops and tour Iraqi training facilities. The delegation returns to the United States on Monday.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) announced today that Fairchild Air Force Base will host a new $31 million Armed Forces Reserve Center and Organizational Maintenance Shop. Keith Eastin, Assistant Secretary of the Army, wrote in a letter to McMorris that the units currently assigned to the Mann Hall Army Reserve Center and the Walker Army Reserve Center will be relocated to the new facility at Fairchild Air Force Base. The project is part of Base Realignment and Closure package following the 2006 BRAC Commission report. Construction is slated to begin in 2007 and estimated to be completed in 2009. “One of my top priorities is to work on those projects and issues that will keep our nation and communities safe,” said McMorris. “Protecting and expanding missions at Fairchild is important to our national security efforts. This project will provide our soldiers with a state of the art facility and ensure they receive the best training possible.” McMorris, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, sent a letter to Assistant Secretary Eastin in March requesting an update on the relocation of the Full Facility Restoration Project.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) announced today that the Department of the Air Force released a Request for Information (RFI) to private industries regarding the KC-135 Tanker Replacement Program (KC-X) and complementary Air Refueling capabilities. The purpose of the RFI is to ensure early industry involvement and gather information on KC-X platforms and concepts. “This is an important step that shows the Air Force is moving ahead with the process of replacing our aging KC-135 tankers,” said McMorris. “One of my top priorities is to promote missions and projects that will expand Fairchild Air Force Base and ensure our national security. This is positive news for Fairchild that is currently home to an overworked and aging fleet of tankers.” The RFI was released following extensive studies analyzing the visibility of the existing fleet, and the anticipation the Air Force’s projected needs. The current fleet is flying over 200% of the Air Force’s anticipated flying hours in support of Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom. McMorris, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, has been vocal on the need for new air refueling tankers. The primary purpose of the KC-X program is to replace the war-fighting capability provided by the KC-135 fleet. The Air Force predicts that complete replacement of the KC-135 fleet will take between 25-35 years, meaning that some planes will be over 80 years old before they are replaced. Costs of maintaining the aging fleet, which is the oldest in the Air Force, are also increasing. The Air Force estimates that maintaining the KC-135 tankers would cost $46.8 billion through 2040.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today voted in favor of H.R. 282, the Iran Freedom Support Act. McMorris is a cosponsor of this bill that holds the current regime in Iran accountable for its threatening behavior and to support a transition to democracy in Iran. “One of my top priorities is to ensure our national security,” said McMorris. “Iran's desire to obtain materials to produce nuclear weapons is an immense security concern to Middle East stability, as well as to the United States and its allies in the region. I support a policy of cooperative and multilateral diplomacy and believe we must keep working with Great Britain, France, Germany and Russia to stop Iran’s nuclear proliferation. Supporting freedom in Iran is an important component in our global effort against terrorism.” The bill will keep United States sanctions, controls, and regulations relating to weapons of mass destruction with respect to Iran in effect until the President certifies that Iran has permanently and verifiably dismantled its weapons of mass destruction programs. A copy of McMorris’ floor statement on this bill is below: Extension of RemarksH.R. 242, the Iran Freedom Support ActApril 26, 2006 Mr. Speaker I rise today in support of H.R. 282, the Iran Freedom Support Act. I applaud this bi-partisan effort by Congress to address the increasing threat posed to our country and world by Iran. Many defense experts have predicted that we face no greater threat from a single country than from Iran. Iran’s leaders, including Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, have continuously called for the destruction of Israel, rejected overtures from the world community, including the United Nations, supported international terrorism, and continued to advance their nuclear program with the announcement on April 11 that Iran had successfully enriched fuel-grade uranium. All of these actions are unacceptable. We would be remiss to ignore a country that perilously threatens our allies and the security of the world while simultaneously seeking to advance its unsupervised nuclear capabilities. We must not allow Iran to bully the world or our allies or fail to show Iran that we will take their irresponsible and careless behavior seriously. H.R. 282 will help support democracy while taking a firm stance against the radical and reckless leaders of Iran and those that would support them. At this time, supporting democracy in Iran is an important ingredient to resolving this situation peacefully. One of my top priorities in Congress is to ensure our national security, and I support H.R. 282 as an important step in combating the rising risk of Iran.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) and her staff met this week with representatives from the Spokane Regional Chamber of Commerce who traveled to D.C. this week to meet with political leaders from the Northwest and present their top legislative priorities. The Spokane Chamber of Commerce traveled as part of a 51-member delegation representing five local Chamber of Commerce from Washington and Idaho. The delegation was composed of local leaders from government, education, health, transportation, and business communities. “It was great to see the collaborative efforts of our community leaders,” said McMorris. “I believe we can accomplish the most when we come together and act in a bipartisan fashion on behalf of Eastern Washington. We have achieved many great things for Spokane and the region and I will continue to work with the Spokane Chamber to secure new economic opportunities.” McMorris held a meeting with the Spokane Chamber to discuss legislative priorities and key accomplishments for Eastern Washington. She focused on the need to expand Fairchild Air Force Base; improve access to quality, affordable health care; and grow our regional economy through transportation, technology, workforce and research projects. Members of Forward Fairchild and McMorris’ staff met with U.S. Air Force and Department of Defense officials at the Pentagon. They lobbied on behalf of Fairchild Air Force Base and were briefed by Air Force officials about the KC-X program to replace the aging KC-135 Air Refueling Tankers. McMorris also hosted a Health Information Technology meeting with Congressman Adam Smith. She discussed health care priorities for Eastern Washington including Association Health Plans, rural health care funding, the WWAMI Program, Institute for Systems Medicine, medical liability reform, and her legislation to create a Health Information Technology Medicaid Demonstration.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today voted for two energy bills to help provide relief for high gas prices. The Federal Energy Price Protection Act (H.R. 5253) prohibits price gouging, and the Refinery Permit Process Schedule Act (H.R. 5254) helps increase domestic oil supply by expanding U.S. refining capacity. “Over the past 30 years we have become more dependent on foreign oil without looking for ways to increase our domestic energy supply,” said McMorris. “We will not be able to solve this problem overnight, but is time we take proactive steps to address high gas prices and look at both short and long-term solutions. These two bills serve as starting points for our long journey towards energy independence. Protecting consumers and increasing our domestic oil supply are two important components of a comprehensive energy plan.” The Federal Energy Price Protection Act protects American consumers by ensuring there is no price manipulation of gasoline, diesel fuel, crude oil, home heating oil, and biofuels. It directs the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) to define “price gouging,” provides for strong civil enforcement by the FTC and by states’ attorney general, and provides for criminal enforcement by the U.S. attorney general and the Department of Justice. Civil penalties for price-gouging will be to pay three times the ill-gotten gains of the seller, plus up to $3 million per day of continuing violation. Criminal penalties will include fines up to $150 million and/or imprisonment for up to two years. The Refinery Permit Process Schedule Act addresses the need for new refinery capacity and supports the development of renewable motor fuels that can be produced from the nation’s agricultural, forestry, and other biomass resources. A new refinery has not been built in the United States for over 30 years, yet the demand for fuel has increased, causing increased dependence on foreign oil. Total capacity at operating refineries is roughly 17 million barrels a day, while total U.S. consumption averages nearly 21 million barrels a day. The bill helps increase our domestic oil supply by establishing a federal coordinator so permit decisions can move efficiently, eliminating bureaucratic delays in the permitting process, giving EPA priority in the scheduling coordination, and directing the president to identify at least three closed military bases that are suitable sites for new refineries, one of which must be designated for biofuel refining.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today voted for H.R. 4975, the Lobbying Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006, which increases transparency and disclosure of Congressional activities. " It is important for us to find a balance between identifying the appropriate role of lobbyists and the need to create a transparent and legitimate system," said McMorris. "There is a role for those who lobby, yet that role can easily be abused, which is why we must create a system where rules and procedures are clearly defined. I believe that full disclosure is the simplest answer to keep everyone accountable. We must set high standards for our elected officials and restore trust and ethics to our United States Congress.¨ The Lobbying Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006 increases transparency by: Strengthening lobbyist disclosure requirements and the frequency of filings by creating an online database Requiring members of Congress to forfeit retirement benefits if convicted of bribery, including conspiracy charges Requiring members, staff and lobbyist to attend a mandatory ethics course each Congress Requiring the Committee on Standards of Official Conduct to report recommendations on qualified private travel ban Ensuring that members cannot condition official acts based on the employment decision of an outside entity or private business Curtailing the number of Member appropriation projects by enhancing transparency
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05), Vice-Chair of the Subcommittee on Select Education, today voted to support the bipartisan Senior Independence Act, which strengthens and renews the Older Americans Act. McMorris is a cosponsor of this bipartisan legislation (H.R. 5293) that supports the needs of America’s aging population by emphasizing consumer choice, access to reliable information, and health promotion. The bill passed with unanimous support in the Select Education Subcommittee. “Our growing senior population deserves to have programs and services that meet their needs, such as Meals on Wheels,” said McMorris. “This legislation strengthens programs that deliver care and services and also strives to educate and engage our seniors. Case management, transportation, family caregiver support and legal assistance are just some of the services that help make the Inland Northwest a thriving and secure community for seniors.” Today it is estimated that over 36 million people in the U.S. are over the age of 65, making it the fastest growing age group in the country. In Eastern Washington, the Older American’s Act has helped facilitate the delivery of 156,188 home meals through Meals on Wheels, 156,188 miles of volunteer transportation, legal advice for over 500 seniors, and 4,566 individuals receiving family caregiver support. The Senior Independence Act coordinates federal programs, activities and services to identify long-term options and meet the needs of the senior citizens. The legislation promotes home and community based supports to help aging individuals avoid institution care, strengthens nutritional programs such as Meals on Wheels, and ensures that seniors remain active contributors in society by improving educational and volunteer services and safeguarding employment-based training.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today voted for H.R. 4297, the Tax Increase Prevention and Reconciliation Act of 2005. The bill extends tax relief, protects small business owners and ensures continued economic growth. “One of my top priorities is to provide economic growth and job creation for Eastern Washington,” said McMorris. “A key to competitiveness is reducing the tax burden and allowing families and businesses to keep more of their hard earned money. Failure to pass these extensions would have resulted in tax increases for millions of hardworking people. While these extensions are positive, we must aim for permanent tax relief that will set the stage for long-term economic stability and job growth.” Tax relief and pro-growth economic policies have strengthened the U.S. economy and created over five millions new jobs since 2003. Since then there has also been an increase in business investment; a rise in individual real after-tax income; and higher tax receipts going into the U.S. Treasury. The Tax Increase and Prevention Act supports families, businesses and seniors by extending: Tax relief for an additional year The increased limit on small business expensing at $100,000 through 2009 The lower tax rate on dividend income through 2010, thus preventing a $13 billion tax increase over the next four years. 1 in 2 taxpaying senior citizens will benefit. The lower tax rate on capital gains income through 2010, thus preventing a $7 billion tax increase over the next four years. Nearly 1 in 3 senior citizens will benefit.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) announced today that the U.S.D.A. Agriculture Research Science (ARS) facility at Washington State University secured $35.69 million in the Agriculture Appropriations bill, passed by the House Agriculture Committee. The bill is expected to be considered by the full House of Representatives next week. “Securing funding for the ARS facility has been my top priority and this initial funding number is great news for both Washington State University and our Eastern Washington economy,” said McMorris. “The support of Congressman Dicks and the entire Northwest delegation helped us secure a victory during this first stage. We will continue to fight for the full funding of the project as Congress moves ahead with the appropriations process and will work with Senator Murray and Senator Cantwell to ensure that WSU continues to be a leader in agriculture research.” “We’re very excited by the House of Representatives appropriation for the ARS laboratory in Pullman, special thanks to Representatives McMorris and Dicks,” said V. Lane Rawlins, president of WSU. “We appreciate the effort that the entire Washington delegation has put forth to secure the funds for this critical research facility. “The ARS building will be integrated into the biotechnology research and education complex on the Pullman campus and is an integral part of our system-wide vision for live science research,” Rawlins said. “Seamless interaction between our researchers and ARS scientists will ensure that WSU undergraduate and graduate students will learn to use the latest technologies, work in collaborative ways and generate the knowledge needed to drive our future agricultural and life science economy.” The funding will be used in construction of the ARS facility, the only federally funded structure in a planned seven-building bioscience research complex on the WSU campus in Pullman. The facility will provide a place for federal and other research scientists to work together with the academic community in support of technology-based research programs in wheat, barley, and grain legumes.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today voted for H.R. 5122, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007, which enhances benefits for troops and provides new equipment and protection for our military. McMorris, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, also secured funding for local defense projects at Isothermal Systems Research (ISR) and Trident Systems. “One of my top priorities is to keep our nation and communities safe,” said McMorris. “The bill demonstrates unwavering support of our men and women who are serving our country in the military. The legislation includes funding to provide our troops with the most advanced technology and equipment in the field, and ensures they receive proper benefits when they return home. It is essential that we provide quality and affordable health care to our troops and I was pleased to see expansion of the TRICARE pharmacy plans, which serve reserve, active duty and retired service members.” ISR secured funds to develop and test an advanced radar module cooling system that reduces per-unit costs. Trident Systems received funding for the Trident Soldier Training Instrumentation that allows for real time tracking of individual troops conducting training on military ranges and offers post-event reconstruction. “I also applaud the Armed Services Committee for moving forward with the process of replacing the aging KC-135 fleet by allowing the conditional retirement of 29 E models, many of which have been grounded for safety reasons. The 92nd Air Refueling Wing recently delivered the one billionth gallon of fuel in Operation Iraqi Freedom and I will continue to support their mission by fighting for replacement tankers.” Highlights of the annual defense authorization bill include: An additional $50 billion in supplemental funding to support the war on terror’s operational costs, personnel expenses and procurement of new equipment. Increased funding for force protection equipment in support of operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, including up-armored Humvees, explosive protection kits and jammers, and new body armor to protect against lethal IEDs. A 2.7% across-the-board pay raise for all members of the armed forces. Blocks the Department of Defense’s proposed TRICARE Prime and TRICARE Standard fee increases and zeroes out co-pays for generic and formulary mail order prescriptions for military beneficiaries. Adds $735 million to the Defense Health Program to restore the funding cut in anticipation of increased beneficiary cost shares.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today voted for H.R. 4200, the Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act. She is a co-sponsor of this legislation that provides a commonsense approach to address forest rehabilitation following catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes, wind storms, or insect epidemics. “Eastern Washington has experienced a number of deadly forest fires and it is crucial that we have legislation to expedite the restoration process,” said McMorris. “Our forests, and the resulting timber, play an extremely important role in our region’s economy. Maintaining healthy forests is essential to those who make a living from the land and for those of us who use them for others purposes. This legislation will help our forests recover more quickly and efficiently from disasters.” The Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act provides the necessary tools for a rapid assessment of damage and action to speed recovery efforts. The public forests in Eastern Washington span 2.6 million acres of land. Currently, the Colville Forest is dying faster than it is being maintained, leaving a large number of dead or dying trees susceptible to disease, insect infestation, and future wildfires. Following forest fires, the Colville National Forest has only been able to salvage five to ten percent of the lost timber value, compared to the Confederated Tribes of Colville who have been able to salvage 90 – 95 percent on their reservation. Last summer’s School Fire, just south of Pomeroy, burned more than 50,000 acres of land. According to James Agee, a University of Washington forest ecologist and professor, the area burned by the School Fire likely will take about 150 years to grow back if left alone. McMorris also spoke on the floor about the impact of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) on Forest Recovery. “Immediate restoration work on forests following catastrophic events is essential for reforestation and rehabilitation to be successful,” continued McMorris. “As the chair of the NEPA task force, I have unfortunately discovered that legal and procedural delays have become the norm, leaving vast areas of national forest land barren of trees for decades. This has lead to devastating impacts on wildlife habitat, soil stability and water quality.” The legislation is endorsed by the 25,000-member National Federation of Federal Employees, the 15,000 member Society of American Foresters, and a coalition of organizations representing more than 12,000 firefighting professionals.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today voted for the Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2007. The bill (H.R. 5385) provides funding for health care and veterans’ benefits. The bill also includes $4.25 million in funding for the Physiological Training Facility at Fairchild Air Force Base. “One of my top priorities is providing access to quality and affordable health care for those who are currently serving in the military and for our veterans,” said McMorris. “They deserve to have the best care possible, both while they are actively serving and when they return home. The project for Fairchild Air Force Base is important in order to train and prepare our service men and women for the rigorous tasks of their duties.” The funding for Fairchild Air Force Base will be used to construct a new Physiological Training Facility that will train 1,100 Armed Services personnel, Federal Aviation Administration personnel, and International air crews to recognize the effects of altitude on human physiology and flight performance. The training facility primarily serves a six state regional area, but is also available nationally. The Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs Appropriations Act will do the following: Provide $25 billion for Veterans Medical Services – $2.6 billion above last year’s level, representing a 70 percent increase in total funding over the last 6 years; Increase funding by $20 million for facility improvements in existing state veterans’ homes; Increase basic medical research funding by $13 million, for a total of $412 million; Add $12 million to upgrade Veterans Affairs medical research facilities nationwide; and Increase the defense health program by $1 billion, for a total of $21 billion
12.29.2008	(Washington, DC) –Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) released the following statement regarding the ruling today by Judge Redden to invalidate the Upper Snake River Biological Opinion: “Today’s ruling is yet another example of an activist judge overstepping his boundaries and taking control of our rivers. We need to work towards a collaborative approach to solve the biological opinion and restore balance to the use of the Columbia and Snake Rivers. His decisions continue to ignore the progress we have made in fish recovery and the negative impact it will have on the Pacific Northwest’s economy. We must protect our dams and preserve the vital role they play in our region.”
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today voted in favor of H.R. 5429 The American-Made Energy and Good Jobs Act that authorizes oil and gas exploration and production in a section of the Alaska’s Artic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR). The bill passed with bipartisan support with a vote of 225 to 201. “A strong domestic energy supply, both oil and renewable, is vital to our economic and national security,” said McMorris. “America deserves and needs American energy, and exploring ANWR is a step in achieving this. Twenty-first century technology and advanced engineering now exists that allows us to explore for oil and natural gas with minimal impact on the surrounding environment. Our energy policy must include a broad mix of options – and drilling in the ANWR is just one component of a comprehensive energy strategy that will help reduce oil and gas prices for the people of Eastern Washington.” The American-Made Energy and Good Jobs Act would open just 2,000 acres of ANWR to energy production. In 1980, the Congress and President Carter created the nearly 20 million acre ANWR, but they set aside 1.5 million acres of ANWR’s northern coastal plain for the purpose of future energy exploration and development. This parcel is known as the “1002” area, named after the section of the Act that set it aside for its energy resources. Energy exploration in this bill will be limited to just 2,000 acres of ANWR’s “1002” area, leaving 99 percent of the land in its natural condition. These 2,000 acres could recover 10.4 billion barrels of oil, increasing America's total proven reserves by almost 50%. At peak production, energy development on ANWR’s northern coastal plain could deliver to the lower 48 states an additional 1.5 million barrels of oil per day. That is nearly equal to the amount we import from Saudi Arabia every day. The legislation also includes an export ban requiring all oil and natural gas produced in ANWR’s northern Coastal Plain to stay in America, and stringent environmental protections including requirements that the Department of the Interior establish regulations to ensure that drilling will have no significant adverse effect on fish and wildlife and their habitat.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) released the following statement today in regards to the Environmental Protection Agency’s announcement of the agreement reached with Teck Cominco to fund a thee-year study of Lake Roosevelt: “I commend both the EPA and Teck Cominco for working together towards a solution to ensure the health of our river systems. This study is the first step towards the ultimate goal of ensuring Lake Roosevelt is clean and protecting Eastern Washington’s resources and recreation lifestyle.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today announced that the House Agriculture Committee will be holding a Farm Bill hearing on Saturday, June 10th at the Yakima Convention Center from 10:00 am – 2:00 pm. House Agriculture Chairman Bob Goodlatte will attend the hearing along with members of the Washington Congressional delegation including McMorris, Hastings, and Larsen. “The 2007 Farm Bill will be extremely important to our Eastern Washington farmers who are struggling due to the loss of their safety net and high fuel and fertilizer costs,” said McMorris. “As we prepare for the upcoming Farm Bill it is important that our farmers continue to weigh in and are an active part of the process.” McMorris hosted two farm forums last year in Eastern Washington. In October, House Agriculture Chairman Bob Goodlatte attended an agriculture forum in Ritzville and in November Agriculture Secretary Johanns hosted a Farm Forum in Cheney. The Farm Bill hearing is an opportunity for Eastern Washington farmers to speak directly to the House Agriculture Committee and offer public input regarding a new farm bill. Agriculture is vital to the economic stability of our region and Washington state ranks number one or two in the production of 19 different commodities. The Farm Bill offers a wide array of opportunities for farmers including: a safety net for wheat, trade and market access programs, specialty crop purchase program for school lunches, nutrition programs and conservation efforts. After enactment of the 2002 Farm Bill, USDA announced the most comprehensive adjustments in more than 15 years to the county loan rate structure for 2002 crops. The restructured loan rates have adversely affected farmers in the Pacific Northwest and McMorris has worked with colleagues in the House to increase the loan rate and expressed concern that the safety net provided in the 2002 Farm Bill has failed our farmers. She will continue to work to find a solution to counter-cyclical payments, restoring the intended safety net provision. Since taking office, McMorris has worked to promote a strong agriculture/resource economy: Passed H.R. 8 to permanently repeal the death tax Supported the Central American Free Trade Agreement Sponsored legislation to extend tax incentives for biodiesel Sponsored legislation to help beginning farmers and ranchers Sponsored and supported Endangered Species Act legislation Secured funding for Johnson Hall at Washington State University in Pullman
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today supported the Refinery Permit Process Schedule Act (H.R. 5254) to help provide relief for high gas prices and increase domestic oil supply by expanding the number of U.S. owned oil refineries. “Increasing our domestic energy supply is crucial to our economic and national security,” said McMorris. “It is hard to believe that 50 years ago the United States was an exporter of oil. We must once again focus on finding and developing energy at home in America. Our Eastern Washington families, small businesses, farmers and ranchers are feeling the impact of high energy costs. We need to look at a variety of ways to increase domestic supply.” The Refinery Permit Process Schedule Act addresses the need for new refinery capacity and supports the development of renewable motor fuels that can be produced from the nation’s agricultural, forestry, and other biomass resources. A new refinery has not been built in the United States for over 30 years, yet the demand for fuel has increased, causing increased dependence on foreign oil. Total capacity at operating refineries is roughly 17 million barrels a day, while total U.S. consumption averages nearly 21 million barrels a day. The bill helps increase our domestic oil supply by establishing a federal coordinator so permit decisions can move efficiently, eliminating bureaucratic delays in the permitting process, giving EPA priority in the scheduling coordination, and directing the president to identify at least three closed military bases that are suitable sites for new refineries, one of which must be designated for biofuel refining.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today announced that the Administration will be prevented from implementing their proposed Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) rule change until April 2007, due to language included in the emergency supplemental spending bill. The proposed rule would have seized a portion of BPA’s future revenue and used it towards repayment of its federal debt, hurting BPA’s ability to use its sale of surplus power to offer low electricity rates in the northwest. “This is a win for farmers, business and families in the Pacific Northwest,” said McMorris. “It is time for the Administration to recognize that we will do everything in our power to stop their efforts to unfairly target BPA. Eastern Washington’s economy was built on inexpensive renewable energy from our dams and our communities and businesses depend on the benefits of low-cost federal power. Yet this is just a short-term victory and I will continue to work with the bipartisan Congressional delegation from the Pacific Northwest to achieve a long-term solution with the Administration to protect our low energy rates.” McMorris, along with Republican House Members from Washington, Oregon and Idaho, sent a letter yesterday to House Appropriators urging them to include the BPA language in the final version of the emergency supplemental bill. In the Pacific Northwest, 40 percent of electricity sales and 75 percent of the transmission come from the BPA. This proposal would have raised rates as high as 10 percent in the Pacific Northwest – a region where electricity rates are almost 50 percent higher than those in place before the 2001 energy crisis. Since taking office, McMorris has actively opposed the Administration’s proposals to change BPA rates. Last year, she worked with members of the delegation to successfully eliminate from the budget a proposal that would have required BPA to sell power at market-based rates, rather than at cost. This year she testified to the Budget Committee on the impact of a BPA rate change, and as Vice-Chair of the Water and Power Subcommittee conducted an oversight hearing on the proposed Fiscal Year 2007 Budgets for Federal Power Marketing Administrations.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) last night voted in favor of H.R. 5252 The Communications Opportunity, Promotion and Enhancement (COPE) Act of 2006. This bipartisan legislation removes unnecessary red tape and outdated regulations, paving the way for increased competition in the telecommunications market and ensuring the United States remains a leader in technological innovation. “Updating our telecommunication laws will help keep our economy strong by increasing competition, driving down prices, and improving service,” said McMorris. “In Eastern Washington, COPE means better service in rural areas and cities, competition so people have more than one cable or internet company to choose from, and access to broadband and other technology.” Telecommunications contributes $864 billion to the US economy, nearly a third of the worlds overall spending in this sector. Despite the progress that has been made in telecommunication and technology, consumers still experience high costs, and many do not have choice when it comes to the marketplace. This bill offers a feasible and common sense approach to opening up the nationwide market so providers can compete head to head. Studies have shown that competition leads to lower prices. According to the Government Accountability Office, where true cable competition exists, cable rates are typically 15 percent lower. “The United States currently ranks 12th in broadband deployment; we must do better. The availability of high-speed Internet access in rural areas will promote economic growth and development in our local communities. It allows for access to important services, such as telehealth, and creates new businesses opportunities so small towns can continue to grow.”
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) and Congressman Doc Hastings (WA-04) announced today that the House Water and Power Subcommittee will hold a Congressional field hearing on “Electricity Costs and Salmon: Finding a Balance.” The hearing will be held on Friday, July 7th, 2006 at 10:00 am in the Gjerde Multipurpose Facility at Columbia Basin College located at 2600 N. 20th Avenue, Pasco, Washington. “Electricity ratepayers in the Pacific Northwest are being hit from all angles, said McMorris, Vice-Chair of the Water and Power Subcommittee. “The low-cost hydropower resources that have fueled our economy for generations are being compromised by a number of factors. Eastern Washington’s families and businesses deserve answers about increasing energy prices. This hearing will help provide those answers and solutions in helping to keep energy rates low and maintaining the multipurpose use of our river system.” “Northwest ratepayers spend hundreds of millions of dollars each year on salmon recovery – making it the largest endangered species program anywhere,” said Hastings. “I look forward to participating in this hearing because protecting our dams and ending policies that waste money, increase power rates and fail to achieve recovery results is critical to our economy and our way of life.” In the Pacific Northwest, communities depend on dams to provide low cost renewable power. Yet, costs associated with Endangered Species Act compliance have risen steadily in recent years, contributing to rising electric rates. These added costs are passed directly on to the consumer, whether the fish efforts they fund are cost-effective or not. For example, the spilling of water through our dams in late summer for Snake River Fall Chinook costs up to $3.85 million per endangered fish. Due to these high and often hidden costs, McMorris recently introduced the Endangered Species Compliance and Transparency Cost Act, which gives consumers the right to know how much of the federal government’s ESA costs are being passed on to the electricity consumer. Hastings is an original cosponsor of this legislation. “I have always believed that Congress must hear directly from those on-the-ground most affected by federal policies,” said Resources Committee Chairman Richard Pombo. “As such, the field hearing proposal to hear from impacted energy consumers in Eastern Washington is an excellent way to help Congress craft new and improved federal energy policies that will bring real relief at home.”
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today voted in favor of three bills to increase the quality of health care for Eastern Washington residents: H.R. 5293 the Senior Independence Act, H.R. 5573 the Health Centers Renewal Act and H.Res. 323 Supporting efforts to increase childhood cancer awareness, treatment, and research. “One of my top priorities is to provide access to quality, affordable health care,” said McMorris. “The three bills passed today help improve care to children, seniors, and everyone in between. We must continue to fund our health care priorities and strengthen programs that deliver critical care and services.” McMorris is a cosponsor of the Senior Independence Act, which renews the Older Americans Act. This bipartisan legislation supports the needs of America’s aging population by emphasizing consumer choice, access to reliable information, and health promotion. Today it is estimated that over 36 million people in the U.S. are over the age of 65, making it the fastest growing age group in the country. In Eastern Washington, the Older American’s Act has helped facilitate the delivery of 156,188 home meals through Meals on Wheels, 156,188 miles of volunteer transportation, legal advice for over 500 seniors, and 4,566 individuals receiving family caregiver support. The Health Centers Renewal Act extends funding through 2011 for the Community Health Centers program, which is set to expire this year. Health centers offer cost-effective, quality health care to poor and medically underserved people, including the working poor, the uninsured, and many high-risk and vulnerable populations. Health centers provide care to 1 of every 8 uninsured Americans, 1 of every 4 Americans in poverty, and 1 of every 9 rural Americans. McMorris also supported House Resolution 323 that states a commitment to promoting awareness about the high rate of cancer among children, and to increasing treatment and research of childhood cancer. The incidence of cancer among children in the United States is rising by about one percent each year, and an estimated 12,400 children were diagnosed with cancer in 2005.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today voted in favor of H.R. 5638, the Permanent Estate Tax Relief Act of 2006. This compromise legislation will provide permanent estate and gift tax relief for millions of small businesses, farmers and families. The estate tax, also known as the death tax, is a tax on the value of a deceased individual’s assets before they are passed to their heirs “This legislation, while not a complete solution, will go a long way in reducing the tax burden on small business and farms in Eastern Washington,” said McMorris. “Our tax system should encourage families to pass down their farms and not force them to sell because the taxes are too high. This double taxation is one of the reasons why two-thirds of family-owned businesses and farms do not make it to the second generation.” Under current law, estate tax relief will end in 2011. Without further action, the estate tax exemption will drop to $1 million per person and the maximum estate tax rate will increase to 55 percent. This bill increases the estate and gift tax exemption to $5 million per person. It also reduces the rate of taxes on estates up to $25 million to the capital gains tax (15% ) and on estates of $25 million or more to double the capital gains tax (30%.) The first piece of legislation McMorris cosponsored in Congress was H.R. 8, to permanently repeal the estate tax. She remains committed to passing legislation that calls for a permanent and complete repeal of all estate taxes.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today supported H.R. 4890, the Legislative Line Item Veto Act of 2006. McMorris is a cosponsor of this legislation that gives the president increased authority to request the removal of unnecessary or wasteful spending items from spending bills. “People deserve to have a government that is fiscally responsible and spends tax payer dollars wisely,” said McMorris. “This legislation is needed to increase transparency and ensure that we keep spending under control. The line-item veto will be a useful tool in eliminating unnecessary spending items.” The Legislative Line Item Veto Act gives the president 45 days to propose rescissions on spending bills he signs into law. Congress is then required to act on the president’s proposed rescissions by requiring an up-or-down vote on the complete list. The direct savings from congressionally approved rescissions will go towards deficit reduction efforts. The legislation also provides for means to address unnecessary entitlement spending – which poses the greatest long-term challenge for the Federal budget.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) announced today that the USDA is committed to purchasing 241,500 metric tons of Pacific Northwest Soft White Wheat for Food Aid programs. There is also potential for an additional 174,000 metric tons to be purchased, bringing the total to over 400,000 metric tons. These Food Aid purchases will help support Soft White Wheat prices. “I am encouraged that USDA is finding ways to help the Pacific Northwest during these challenging times, although I am disappointed that they have been unable to come up with a system to make counter cyclical payments work better for soft white wheat growers,” said McMorris. “This is not the end of our efforts and we will continue to work towards solutions to ensure our farmers remain productive and competitive.” USDA typically buys soft white wheat to donate through our Food Aid programs. Included in the FY07 budget is a request for $1.378 billion of budget authority for USDA's international programs, most of which — $1.218 billion — will go for foreign food donations. “Purchasing our region’s wheat for Food Aid will help both our local farmers and impoverished nations around the world,” continued McMorris. “As Americans we are very blessed to live in a country which has the means to help millions of people around the world who are struggling to survive.” After enactment of the 2002 Farm Bill, USDA announced the most comprehensive adjustments in more than 15 years to the county loan rate structure for 2002 wheat crops. The restructured loan rates have adversely affected wheat growers in the Pacific Northwest. McMorris has joined with Senator Murray and the Washington Wheat Growers to find a solution to counter-cyclical payments and restore the intended safety net provision.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today recognized Summer Demery of Clarkston, WA for winning the 2006 Congressional Art Competition, An Artistic Discovery. Her work “The Rose” will be displayed as part of the national student art exhibit in the U.S. Capitol. “I am proud to have Summer’s artwork displayed in our nation’s capitol and represent Eastern Washington,” said McMorris. “This competition encourages the artistic talent of our youth and is a wonderful opportunity for young artists to have their work showcased for a national audience.” Demery is a recent graduate of Clarkston High School, where she studied art under Mike Clay. “The Rose” was done in ballpoint pen ink, Demery’s preferred medium because of the detail it provides. She estimates that she went through over 8 pens to complete this piece of art. Demery also designed her school’s 2006 yearbook cover and plans on pursing a career in art.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today voted for H.R. 5672, the Science, State, Justice, Commerce and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for FY 07. This legislation provides funding for important agencies and programs to help secure our borders, keep our communities safe, support small businesses, and increase scientific research. Local projects that received language in the bill include Spokane County Anti Meth, Spokane Police Department for Law Enforcement Technology, and the Washington State University Meth Research Center. As part of her continued effort to keep our nation and communities safe, McMorris will participate next week in a tour of the Northern Border and hold a roundtable on securing our borders and eliminating drug and human trafficking. “The local projects recognized in this bill are pivotal in keeping Eastern Washington safe,” said McMorris. “I am committed to winning the war on meth and will continue to work with local programs and law enforcement that share the goal of eliminating this deadly drug from our communities. In addition, this legislation will also have an economic benefit by providing record funding for small business loans and promoting scientific research to increase U.S. competitiveness.” Highlights of the bill include: $1.75 billion for the Drug Enforcement Administration to fight meth abuse and drug-related violence and strengthen intelligence capabilities; $635 million for the Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grants (Byrne-JAG grants) program; $1.1 billion for a State Department border security program to catch fraudulent visas using advanced technological equipment; $6.0 billion for the Federal Bureau of Investigation to provide for counterterrorism infrastructure needs and combat crimes like gang violence and child exploitation; $643 million for the Small Business Administration, including record funding for loans to American entrepreneurs; and $16.7 billion for NASA to fund space exploration, space science, and aeronautics research.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today took steps to decrease our dependence on foreign oil by supporting H.R. 4761 The Deep Ocean Energy Resources (DOER) Act. This legislation will expand America’s energy resources by permitting expanded oil and gas exploration in the deep seas on the outer-continental shelf (OCS). “We must be taking steps to meet our own domestic energy needs and this bill will significantly help in accomplishing that goal,” said McMorris. “With the United States being the only developed nation in the world not to allow energy production off its shores, it is clear that we are failing to capitalize on a huge resource that will improve our economy, create jobs, and increase our national security.” The DOER Act enables the United States to produce energy in the deep waters beyond 100 miles from the coastlines. The Executive Moratorium, which prevents producing energy resources on the OCS, will remain in permanent law for the first 50 miles from the coast. Costal States will then have the power to decide if they will allow natural gas production, oil production, both, or neither on the second 50 miles. According to the U.S. Minerals Management Service, America’s OCS contains 420 trillion cubic feet of natural gas and 86 billion barrels of oil. By comparison, the U.S. consumers 23 trillion cubic feet of natural gas and imports 4.5 billion barrels of oil per year. The U.S. currently sends over $300 billion overseas every year to import energy, accounting for one-third of our annual trade deficit. Technological innovations will ensure that deep sea energy production is safe. Any energy exploration resulting from this bill would be conducted under current environmental regulations to protect and enhance our natural resources.
12.29.2008	(Washington, DC) — Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) recently held a border security roundtable with representatives from U.S. Border Patrol, Immigration Customs and Enforcement, and other Federal Government Agencies. The discussion focused on securing our northern border, providing adequate border security personnel, and the need for new technology and resources. Following the roundtable, McMorris was given a helicopter tour of the northern border. “Securing our northern border is an essential part of keeping our nation and communities safe,” said McMorris. “The roundtable and tour were extremely useful in order to get a first-hand perspective on the activity and challenges facing the northern border. Illegal immigrants and illegal drugs are coming into our state through our northern border and we cannot ignore this security risk. I am committed to ensuring our border agents and local authorities have the funding and resources necessary to protect our region.” Participants at the roundtable discussed the geographical differences between the northern and southern border and the specific technology needs of each. The northern border is in remote areas, and 75 percent of it is on public land. Currently there are no surveillance capabilities below 6,000 feet. McMorris, a member of the Northern Border Caucus, supported H.R. 4437 the Border Protection Act, to enhance security along our nation’s borders to ensure people cannot enter the United States illegally. The major provisions of the legislation included: establishing operation control of all borders and ports through enhanced Border Patrol operations, physical barriers and state-of-the-art technology; and streamlining operations within the Department of Homeland Security border security agencies.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today submitted comments to the Medicaid Commission regarding her legislation to use health information technology to improve care to Medicaid recipients. The Medicaid Access Project through Information Technology (MAP IT) Act, co-sponsored by Congressman Adam Smith, allows for the creation of a demonstration project that will provide a more effective system for managing chronic disease by using health information technology on disease management for the Medicaid population. “Recent innovations in health information technology provide new solutions that will improve access and care to Medicaid recipients while saving the federal and state governments money,” said McMorris. “The current Medicaid program is financially unsustainable and we must begin using 21st technology to change the way we deliver services in order to make this program efficient.” Nationwide, chronic disease patients, including those with diabetes, make up only 20 percent of the Medicaid population, yet they consume nearly 80 percent of Medicaid's costs. The project, as proposed in the legislation, would give chronic disease patients and caregivers access to their own medical records and track their own health information through personal health records. An effective health IT chronic disease management program, such as this one, could result in a more than 3 percent reduction in overall Medicaid program costs while improving the access and quality of care. The Medicaid Commission was established by the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services in 2005 to advise the Secretary on ways to modernize the Medicaid program so that it can provide high-quality health care to its beneficiaries in a financially sustainable way. By December 31, 2006, the Commission is tasked with making long-term recommendations on the future of the Medicaid program that ensure the long-term sustainability of the program. A copy of her remarks is below. Congresswoman Cathy McMorrisApplication of Health Information Technology within Medicaid ProgramMedicaid Commission Meeting Statement for Public RecordJuly 11, 2006Arlington, Virginia Thank you for allowing me to submit comments during this meeting. I recognize the important work that the Medicaid Commission has been given. I am committed to ensuring access to quality and affordable health care and I believe that strengthening the Medicare and Medicaid programs are an important part of that goal. The number of Washingtonians who rely on Medicaid for their health care has increased rapidly in the last ten years to almost one million beneficiaries today. Due to the growing cost of the program, without changes, analysts predict that Medicaid will bankrupt every state in as little as 20 years. Over the next decade, combined federal and state expenditures will reach $5.2 trillion dollars, forcing states to cut benefits or raise taxes. We must act now. This is a time when we are struggling to strengthen the program to ensure care continues for our most vulnerable and needy populations. Expenses from the care of individuals with chronic conditions form a major part of state Medicaid budgets. Although chronic disease patients account for only 20% of the Medicaid population, they often consume nearly 80% of Medicaid’s costs. Because many chronic disease patients often see numerous different healthcare providers and have to manage multiple prescriptions, coordination of care is a major concern for chronic disease patients. This is why I have introduced, along with Congressman Adam Smith (D-WA), the Medicaid Access Project through Information Technology (MAP IT). This bill would authorize CMS to conduct 2-year pilot projects in selected states to demonstrate the beneficial impact of health information technology (health IT) on chronic disease management for the Medicaid population. CMS will competitively select at least four proposals from those submitted by states to perform the demonstration, which will bring together Medicaid patients, healthcare providers, and health education via a web-based virtual case management tool, providing access to best practices for managing chronic disease. The project will give chronic disease patients and caregivers access to their own medical records and allow patients to record and track their own health information through Personal Health Records (PHRs). This demonstration will also give patients access to a single source of information on chronic disease and include several channels of communication with health educators. Physicians and caregivers will have access to complete, current treatment and health status information for chronic disease patients, using a web-based virtual management tool. A study published in August 2005 by the Institute for Public Policy and Economic Analysis at Eastern Washington University, found that for every dollar spent on a technology-enabled disease management program, it provided up to ten dollars in medical savings and even more in terms of non-medical cost savings. Within the Medicaid program, demonstration projects have shown that using an effective health IT chronic disease management program could result in a more than 3% reduction in overall program costs while improving the access and quality of care. It is crucial that we work to incorporate 21st Century information technology into the health care industry, not only to increase efficiency, but to promote quality. Studies show that quality and safety can be increased with the use of health IT. The use of information technology has the ability to enhance the coordination of care. We must work to encourage the adoption of information technology within health care and within government health programs such as Medicaid. Overall, health IT has the potential to save billions of dollars and thousands of lives. It is not just an opportunity; it is our responsibility. Thank you.
12.29.2008	(Washington, DC) — Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today congratulated Phil Moeller for being confirmed by the U.S. Senate as Commissioner for the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). “Phil Moeller is a Spokane native who understands Northwest energy issues,” said McMorris. “His experience and work ethic, combined with his in-depth knowledge of energy markets, will enable him to address the challenges and opportunities of our 21st Century energy system.” Moeller served as energy policy advisor to former U.S. Senator Slade Gorton, and most recently served as the Washington representative for Alliant Energy Corp. He also worked for nearly 10 years as the Staff Coordinator for the Washington State Senate Committee on Energy, Utilities and Telecommunications. He will serve a term expiring June 30, 2010.
12.29.2008	(Washington, DC) — The Resources Committee today voted 17-10 to support the Endangered Species Compliance and Transparency Act (H.R. 4857). This bipartisan legislation, sponsored by Cathy McMorris (WA-05), requires Power Marketing Administrations to list direct and indirect cost estimates associated with Endangered Species Act (ESA) compliance. “Today marks a victory for electricity ratepayers in the Pacific Northwest,” said McMorris. “This bill is the first step in ensuring more transparency for our energy consumers. Most people are unaware that ESA related costs, such as salmon recovery, contribute to higher energy prices. Our goal is to foster better communication and collaboration so consumers have better access and understanding of information related to their energy rates.” “There is no more unpredictable regulatory cost to western electricity ratepayers than ESA compliance,” Resources Committee Chairman Richard W. Pombo (R-Calif.) said. “Some folks may get their bill and say, ’A quarter of my bill to ESA costs is too much.’ Others may say, ‘It’s not enough.’ Either way, consumers deserve to know where their money is going. I thank Rep. McMorris for her steadfast leadership on this issue.” In the Pacific Northwest, communities depend on dams to provide low cost renewable power. The Bonneville Power Administration provides 40% of the electricity in the region. Yet ESA costs related to endangered salmon have risen considerably over the last several years due to federal court-mandates and other compliance programs. In 2004, one mandated spill cost the federal government $75 million in lost hydropower generation in the Pacific Northwest. Another spill this year helped make the Bonneville Power Administration the federal agency with the highest ESA compliance costs in the Nation. These added costs are passed directly on to the consumer, whether the fish efforts they fund are cost-effective or not. According to the Washington Post, Judge Redden’s 2004 mandated summer spill amounted to spending $3.85 million for each Chinook salmon it saved. The majority of consumers do not know the amount they pay for salmon recovery. In a May 2005 poll, Northwest River Partners found that “more than 70 percent of ratepayers either do not know how much they pay or believe that less than 5 percent of their monthly bills go to salmon recovery in the Northwest.” In addition, the group found that “almost six in ten (consumers) are not aware or do not believe that they pay higher rates to protect salmon.” The legislation has 21 co-sponsors and is supported by the American Farm Bureau, National Rural Electric Cooperative Association, American Public Power Association, National Water Resources Association, Family Farm Alliance, and National Endangered Species Act Reform Coalition.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today chaired an Education and Workforce Committee hearing that focused broadly on the impact of guest worker programs on the U.S. workforce. McMorris focused on the need for a temporary legal agriculture workforce and the impact of the prevailing wage provisions that were included in the Senate-passed immigration bill. “The witnesses at the hearing highlighted the complex issues involved with implementing an effective guest worker program and we will to continue to examine this issue further,” said McMorris. “We need to find a way for people who want to come into this country to work on a temporary basis to do so legally and then return home. The agriculture industry in Eastern Washington is facing worker shortages and we need to find a way for them to have a legal labor force to meet their seasonal needs. This includes having a better verification system for employers to use that keeps our nation secure without impeding the economic livelihood of our agricultural economy.” McMorris questioned Dr. Philip Martin, Ph.D., a professor of Agricultural and Resource Economics at the University of California-Davis, on the types of guest worker programs used in other countries. He noted that while intended to be temporary programs, migrant workers often end up staying in the country permanently. “The intent of guest worker programs is to add workers to the labor force temporarily, but not add permanent residents to the population,” said Martin. “In almost all countries and in virtually all time periods, guest worker programs tend to become larger and to last longer than anticipated, and some of the migrant workers settle with their families.” Dr. Martin recommended experimenting with different types of guest worker programs on a pilot basis to determine what works best and what is most effective. Luawanna Hallstrom, Vice-President of Harry Singh and Sons, a family-owned farming operation in Oceanside, California, testified that the current guest worker (H-2A) program does not work and that an electronic verification system is needed. “A workable agricultural guest worker program will not take the jobs from U.S. workers,” said Hallstrom. “Coupled with a workable employment verifications system it will fill agricultural jobs with legal guest workers who will replace the undocumented – not U.S. worker. We strongly believe based on history and our personal experience that a workable guest worker program will substantially reduce illegal migration of workers into agricultural jobs.” Witnesses also expressed confusion regarding prevailing wage provisions in the Senate immigration bill that would force some employers – including small businesses – to pay guest-workers more than Americans doing the same job in the same city. The committee plans to further examine this issue at field hearings next month on illegal immigration and worker wages.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today praised the passage of H.R. 4472, the Child Protection and Safety Act of 2006. McMorris is a cosponsor of this legislation that will help keep children safe from sexual predators by improving sex offender registration and enforcing stricter penalties. The bill will now be sent to the President to be signed into law. “One of my top priorities is to keep our communities safe,” said McMorris. “Our community has experienced firsthand the tragedy of having our children fall prey to sexual predators and we must take action to prevent this from happening again. There currently is not an easily accessible comprehensive nationwide database of sexual offenders available to ensure the safety of families in Eastern Washington – sex offenders do not stop at state lines, and neither should our sex offender registries.” Nearly 100,000 sex offenders remain unregistered, and are moving freely about the country. Most recent high-profile abductions crimes were all committed by previously-convicted sex offenders. According to the US Department of Justice, sex offenders are four times more likely to be rearrested and child molesters on average only serve 43 percent of their sentence. Highlights of the Child Protection and Safety Act include: Improving the Sex Offender Registration and Notification Program to ensure that sex offenders register – and keep current where they reside, work, and attend school; Creating the Dru Sjodin National Sex Offender Public Website to search for sex offender information in each community; Requiring states to notify each other when sex offenders move from one state to another; Increasing penalties for using the Internet for the sexual exploitation of children; and Increasing law enforcement’s ability to combat child pornography.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) and Congressman Adam Smith (WA-09) today offered a bipartisan amendment to H.R. 4157, the Health Information Technology Promotion Act of 2005. The amendment, originally introduced as the Medicaid Access Project through Information Technology, allows for the creation of a demonstration project that will provide a more efficient and effective system for managing disease by using health information technology on disease management for the Medicaid population. The amendment was agreed to by voice vote and the final bill passed by a vote of 270-148. The bill will now be sent to conference. “Health IT has the potential to reduce costs with Medicaid, empower patients with the necessary tools to manage their disease, and improve quality of care by reducing errors,” said Cathy McMorris. “The United States lags behind other industrialized countries regarding investment in health IT, and it is time that we begin using 21st century technology for 21st century health care. Washington state is already a nationwide leader in health IT and could benefit by applying to be a candidate in this demonstration program.” “Under the current paper-based healthcare system, patients and their doctors lack instant access to medical information,” said Adam Smith. “This lack of connectivity and shared knowledge leads to medical errors, increased costs, and inefficiency. This demonstration project would leverage information technology as a tool to increase the efficiency of the healthcare system, improve the quality of care for Medicaid patients and it will decrease costs to states and the federal government, which are facing record deficits.” The McMorris-Smith amendment directs the Secretary of Health and Human Services to conduct 2-year pilot projects in selected states to demonstrate the beneficial impact of health IT on chronic disease case management for the Medicaid population. It allows for the creation of a virtual case management tool that provides patients and providers access to a real-time electronic medical records. Without changes to our health care system, analysts predict that Medicaid will bankrupt every state in as little as twenty years. By providing online access for managing chronic disease, states will be able to significantly reduce costs within Medicaid. An August 2005 study by the Institute for Public Policy and Economic Analysis at Eastern Washington University found that for ever dollar spent on technology-enabled disease management program, it provided up to ten dollars in medical savings and even more in terms of non-medical cost savings. In addition to cost-savings, the use of Health IT ensures that overall health care delivery is safe and more comprehensive. According to the Institute of Medicine, at least 1.5 million Americas are sickened, injured or killed each year by errors in prescribing, dispensing or taking medications. By allowing providers to access real time data, doctors can treat patients with the most recent advancements in medicine and according to the best practices in medicine. This amendment is endorsed by American Medical Association, American Hospital Association, Federation of American Hospitals, Healthcare Information Management Systems Society, American Health Information Management Association, Information Technology Industry Council, Northwest Physicians Network, and Othello Community Hospital. It is also supported by the entire Washington state delegation.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) voted early this morning in favor of H.R. 5970 – Estate Tax and Extension of Tax Relief Act of 2006 that includes the state sales tax deduction for Washington state. The provision creates parity among states by allowing all taxpayers the option to deduct their state sale taxes in lieu of their state and local income taxes. The legislation also includes a research and development tax credit. “Eastern Washington families and businesses should be able to deduct every penny of state and local sales tax they pay throughout the year from their federal tax bill, especially when people in most states are deducting their state income taxes,” said McMorris. “Extending the Research and Development tax credit is a crucial in order for businesses to remain competitive and to grow the economy.” The Americans Job Creation Act of 2004 restored the deduction for residents of Washington state and eight other states. In the 2004, the deduction was utilized by over 925,000 Washington taxpayers, who were able to keep more than $500 million of their hard earned dollars. McMorris is a co-sponsor of H.R. 519 that would make the sales tax deduction permanent. She has sent a letters to Committee Chairmen, Pension Conferees, and leadership about the importance of the state sales tax deduction and the research and development tax credit.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) announced today that the Spokane County Sheriff’s Office was awarded a $148,084 grant by the U.S. Department of Justice as part of the FY2006 Bureau of Justice Assistance Congressionally Mandated Awards. The Spokane County Sheriff’s Office will use the funds to implement a variety of law enforcement initiatives utilizing a retro-fitted military surplus helicopter and the services of fully-trained and licensed helicopter pilots. “This funding will help provide the Spokane County Sheriff’s Department with the necessary tools and resources to do their job and keep our communities safe,” said McMorris. “One of my top priorities is to ensure the security of our nation and communities, and I will continue to work with local law enforcement to accomplish this goal. By working together we will make Eastern Washington a safe place to live, work and raise a family.” The helicopter funding will help with the implementation of a variety of law enforcement initiatives, such as search and rescues, surveillance, traffic emphasis patrols, and drug enforcement interdiction operations. “We are pleased that Department of Justice recognizes the value of a law enforcement helicopter program in Eastern Washington,” said Sheriff Ozzie Knezovich. “Because the helicopter will be utilized to assist some federal programs as well as local law enforcement needs, I am pleased that the DOJ funding offsets some of the financial burden of Spokane County taxpayers.”
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today met with U.S. Air Force Commander General Duncan McNabb at Fairchild Air Force Base to discuss the future of Fairchild and the need for replacement air refueling tankers. McMorris, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, has been vocal on the need for new air refueling tankers. “I am very encouraged by my meeting with General McNabb and am confident that Fairchild will be the first base to receive replacement tankers,” said McMorris. “He gave his assurance that he hopes to bring the first fleet of KC-X tankers to Fairchild Air Force Base because of the training capabilities, ramp space and the great support from the community. Fairchild is strongly positioned for the KC-X because of the presence and cooperation of active duty, reserve, and 141st Air National Guard units. With the support of Forward Fairchild we are moving forward with our goal to expand the mission of Fairchild and General McNabb showed his appreciation for the continued hard work and commitment of the community.” McMorris and General McNabb also discussed the consolidation efforts to make Fairchild a joint operations base. “I was very pleased to hear from General McNabb that moving the Army Reserve Center onto Fairchild is progressing.” said McMorris.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) will be holding three information sessions for students and parents interested in learning more about the Military Academy nomination process. The service academies include the Air Force Academy, Merchant Marine Academy, Naval Academy and West Point. Walla Walla Academy Night Monday, September 11th at 6:00 pm Walla Walla Congressional District Office, 29 S. Palouse Street Spokane Academy Night Tuesday, September 12th at 6:00 pmSpokane Congressional District Office, 10 N. Post, Suite 625 Colville Academy Night Wednesday, September 13th at 6:00 pmColville Congressional District Office, 555 South Main Street “As a member of Congress I have the privilege of selecting a limited number of nominees for each military service academy,” said McMorris. “These nominees are the future leaders of our Armed Forces. They will have the opportunity to become commissioned officers and will be entrusted to carry on the power and prestige of our military services.” Nominees for appointment to one of the academies are selected on a competitive basis, using criteria determined by the academies to be indicative of one's potential for success in the military. Each candidate for a nomination must meet the following basic eligibility requirements as of July 1 of the year of entry to a service academy: reside in the 5th Congressional District of Washington; be a United States citizen; be at least 17 years old, but not have passed your 23rd birthday; and be unmarried, not pregnant, and have no legal obligation for support of a child or other dependents. For more information on Military Academy nominations contact Allison Cole at (509) 353-2374.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) returned to Washington D.C. today for legislative votes after spending the month of August highlighting accomplishments and holding meetings and events throughout Eastern Washington. McMorris traveled to all 12 Eastern Washington counties during the month and held a series of advisory committee meetings, small business roundtables, and agriculture roundtables. “August was an excellent opportunity to talk face to face with the people of Eastern Washington and review where we have focused my time and energy on the priorities of Eastern Washington,” said McMorris. “Despite our accomplishments, there is still a lot of work that needs to be done during this session of Congress. I heard many people address the need for secured borders, relief from high energy prices, a skilled workforce, the passage of crucial tax deductions, and the rising costs of health care.” McMorris attended seven small businesses roundtables in Newport, Spokane, Walla Walla, Clarkston, Republic, Odessa, and Tonasket. The meetings focused on the economic interests and needs of small businesses, including Associated Health Plans, a trained workforce, pension reform, and reducing regulatory costs. The agriculture roundtables discussed long-term planning for the future of agriculture in Eastern Washington, including preparation for the 2007 Farm Bill. High energy costs, county loan rates, and the need for a legal workforce were some main topics discussed. “I received great feedback during the meetings and will continue to work on our legislative priorities when we head back into session,” continued McMorris. “We must continue our discussion on immigration reform and ensure that our borders remain protected. It is also extremely important to Washington state residents that we get the state sales tax deduction, timber tax, death tax, and research and development tax credit extensions passed.” The legislative calendar for September will focus on national security and Congress is expected to pass Defense, Homeland Security and Military Quality of Life spending bills. The House is also planning to vote on earmark reform, which would increase transparency by requiring members to attach their names to all earmarked projects on appropriation, tax, and authorizing bills.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) released the following statement today to mark the five-year anniversary of the September 11th terrorist attacks: “Five years ago, our country was forever changed by the attacks on the World Trade Center, the Pentagon, and Flight 93. Today we remember the thousands of victims who lost their lives and honor the heroes who selflessly worked to save those inside. We should never forget the courage, bravery, and compassion of the human spirit that was exhibited that day. Five years later we still stand firm in our resolve to fight the war terror and eliminate terrorist groups around the world. Our top priority must continue to be protecting the security and freedom of our country and citizens. I want to thank the men and women who serve in our military, especially those stationed at Fairchild Air Force Base. They continue to play a valuable role in our nation’s fight against terror and are helping to keep us safe. Organizations such as Operation Spokane Heroes provide crucial support and assistance to military families during these difficult times and help remind us all about the positive impact we can make by getting involved and volunteering our time. It is also important to honor our community’s first responders – our police, firefighters, and paramedics. They risk their lives daily to keep us safe and we must never forget to show them how grateful we are for their work and sacrifice.”
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris today voted in favor of an important earmark reform resolution (H.Res. 1000). This resolution creates a new House rule that will provide more transparency and accountability within the earmark process. The resolution passed 245-171. “This rule will help ensure that taxpayer money is being spent wisely,” said McMorris. “This rule change will shine a spotlight on earmarks and ensure that money is only being spent on legitimate projects. If a member isn’t willing to publicly take ownership of a project for which they have requested funds, then we shouldn’t be spending taxpayer dollars on it. This will also prevent earmarks from being hidden or snuck into bills at the last minute.” Under the new rule adopted by the House of Representatives, in order for the House to consider a bill, the Committee of jurisdiction must list all earmarks included in the bill and committee report, along with the names of Representatives requesting the earmark. This applies to authorizing earmarks, appropriations earmarks, and tax earmarks. In continued efforts to promote fiscal responsibility, the House of Representatives yesterday also passed the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act. This bill creates a searchable database that tracks federal grants and contracts received by companies and organizations.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) — Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today introduced the Wheat Counter-Cyclical Payments Enhancement Act of 2006 (H.R. 6074). This legislation requires the Secretary of Agriculture to determine counter-cyclical payments for wheat by class instead of national averages. “It is clear that the counter-cyclical program is failing our farmers and is not providing the intended safety net,” said McMorris. “I have worked closely with our wheat growers in Eastern Washington, and after pursuing every avenue for assistance with the United States Department of Agriculture, decided it was time to introduce legislation to fix the problem. The purpose of this legislation is to enact effective counter-cyclical reform to improve the safety net for farmers and target assistance to those who need it the most.” After enactment of the 2002 Farm Bill, USDA announced the most comprehensive adjustments in more than 15 years to the county loan rate structure for 2002 wheat crops. The restructuring of the loan rates, combined with the lack of restructuring of counter-cyclical payments, have left our wheat growers without assistance. McMorris has worked closely with Senator Patty Murray on this issue, and have held numerous meetings with USDA officials since the start of the year. “Never before has there been such bipartisan work between our Representative and Senator than what the Wheat Growers have observed,” said Jerry Snyder, President of the Washington Wheat Growers Association. “We are pleased to see the respect that both have given to this problem. This is not a partisan problem, it is an agricultural problem. This bill, should it be enacted, will provide hope, a lifeline, and encouragement for wheat growers in Washington state.” Alex McGregor, President of the McGregor Company, testified yesterday in front of the House Agriculture Committee about the positive impact of this legislation. “The safety net has been inadequately set so close to the ground that if wheat growers qualified, they likely would have suffered irreversible financial ramifications,” said McGregor. “The loan rate for Soft White Wheat, for instance, is far below production costs. The current counter cyclical calculation, an average of all classes, is far beyond their reach. Proposed legislative action led by Congresswoman McMorris can help by allowing the Secretary discretionary authority to adjust countercyclical payments when severe imbalances among market prices of classes occur. We agree with the Secretary that wheat growers across the nation have not been able to make use of safety net help when they have needed it.” Doc Hastings (R-WA) and Mike Simpson (R-ID) are original cosponsors of the bill.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) announced that the Task Force on Improving and Strengthening the National Environmental Policy Act has released its final report. Based on findings and testimony given to the Task Force at seven field hearings across the country, a final report was compiled that includes 20 recommendations on how to strengthen the NEPA process. “This report demonstrates that we need to improve NEPA, yet in doing so, must keep the original intent of the law,” said McMorris. “Congress designed NEPA to make sure we understood the environmental impacts of major projects, that we “look before we leap.” However after 35 years there is room for improvement, and it is time that we put common sense back into environmental decision making.” The final report includes 20 recommendations in 9 subcategories: Addressing delays in the process Enhancing public participations Better involvement for local, state, and tribal stakeholders Addressing litigation issues Clarifying alternative analysis under NEPA Better federal agency coordination Additional authority for the Council on Environmental Quality Clarifying the mean of “cumulative impacts” Studies “The path to modernizing NEPA through Congressional action is a lengthy process and must be done at the correct time,” said McMorris. “Before I introduce legislation to improve NEPA, we must continue to increase awareness and educate people on the impact of NEPA on their daily lives. I am also working to build coalitions, and have a bipartisan approach to solutions.” In Eastern Washington, there are numerous projects, companies and industries that have faced delays and challenges because of NEPA. The ski resort 49 Degrees North had to wait ten years to approve a new chair lift because of the delays associated with NEPA compliance. Renovation of the Fox Theater in downtown Spokane falls under NEPA and they had to complete a “NEPA checklist” as part of the renovation process. The expansion of the Columbia Basin Project, crucial for providing irrigation to farmers, will face NEPA. Our farmers could lose valuable crops due to lack of irrigation while waiting for the NEPA process to be completed. The Buckhorn Mine Project is extremely important to the economy of Okanogan County. Yet the mining industry, including this project, has experienced tremendous delays associated with NEPA. Experts from the industry testified that they sometimes experience up to 20 years of permitting analysis. Buckhorn is still awaiting an Environmental Impact Statement to move forward and Okanogan and Ferry Counties are awaiting this opportunity for economic development. Recent forest fires this summer highlight the need to have active forest management plans in place to prevent widespread damage. The Forest industry testified that NEPA is hurting our ability to keep forests healthy, and homes have been burned to the ground partly because forest management plans were tied up in NEPA litigation. Important transportation projects throughout the state are also delayed by NEPA. Washington State Transportation Director Doug MacDonald testified at a hearing in Spokane that Environmental Impact Statements are now over 2,000 pages long and become so complicated that no one can read them.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) released the following statement regarding proposed job cuts at Fairchild Air Force Base: "My top priority continues to be protecting and expanding the mission at Fairchild Air Force Base. I recognize the importance of having a more mobile, unified and joint force for the future of the U.S. Military. The people who serve at Fairchild are extremely qualified and experienced. They are valuable members of our community and play a vital role in our national security efforts. I am hopeful that any reduction in personnel can be done through voluntary means and that the Air Force will be able to find a place for the men and women at Fairchild, even if it requires moving to another department."
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) announced today that the Forest and Forest Health Subcommittee will be holding an oversight hearing on Wildfires and Their Aftermath: Protecting Communities, Watersheds, and Wildlife. The hearing will be held on Wednesday, October 4th, 2006 at 9:00 am (start time may be changed to 10:00 a.m. to accommodate Members’ travel schedules), at the Agriplex located at 175 Rodeo Trail Drive, Okanogan, Washington. “These fires highlight the importance of having active forest management plans in place to prevent widespread damage,” said McMorris. “We cannot prevent fires, but we do have the ability to reduce their impact through active forest management. The conditions that resulted in these fires took decades to develop and actions that could have reduced the size and intensity of the fire were not taken. Following a fire, immediate restoration work is necessary in order for reforestation and rehabilitation to be successful.” Washington state has experienced a devastating fire season, with over 300,000 acres of land burned in Eastern Washington alone. These fires have enormous impacts on communities and the economy. They threaten property, health, and recreational opportunities and cause valuable resources to be destroyed instead of being able to be used to create wood fibre for communities, biomass for energy, and habitat for wildlife.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) today sent the following letter to Air Force Secretary Michael Wynne asking for details surrounding the possible position reductions at Fairchild Air Force Base: September 25, 2006 Honorable Michael W. Wynne Secretary of the Air Force 1670 Air Force Pentagon Washington, DC 20330-1670 Dear Secretary Wynne, I write out of concern for recent reports I have heard regarding position reductions at Fairchild Air Force Base in my district. As a member of the House Armed Services Committee, one of my priorities has been to ensure our national security and to look for ways that Eastern Washington can play a part in that important mission. In my job of representing Eastern Washington in Congress, I have continually worked to protect and expand Fairchild AFB. I am disappointed that I have not been included or informed of these possible reductions and their effect upon the mission of Fairchild and the Spokane region. I am hopeful to learn from you and your command in the very near future the factuality of details surrounding possible position reductions at Fairchild AFB. If cuts will occur at Fairchild AFB, what are the rationale and criteria used to determine which jobs will be moved or eliminated and why Fairchild positions are targeted for these cuts? What is the timing for these proposed changes? Will these changes affect active duty, reserve, and civilian positions? How will these reductions impact Fairchild’s ability to operate, maintain, and service the KC-135 Tankers stationed there, especially in light of increasing maintenance burden these planes are causing on the Air Force? How will these proposed cuts affect the ability of the KC-X Tanker program to move forward at Fairchild AFB? How will these projected reductions affect all missions at Fairchild AFB? My office was made aware of the proposed personnel cuts via the media, and in the future I am hopeful that I can be alerted in a timely fashion of any changes or reductions proposed to Air Force assets in Eastern Washington. Again, thank you for your attention to this matter and I look forward to working with you and your staff on this important issue facing Fairchild Air Force Base. Best Wishes, Cathy McMorris Member of Congress
12.29.2008	(Washington, DC) — During her first term serving in the U.S House of Representatives, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris has successfully protected what is most important to Eastern Washington. She has worked in a bipartisan manner to pass important legislation to grow the economy, expand access to health care, and keep our nation and communities safe. “These past two years are proof of what can be accomplished by working in a bipartisan fashion on behalf of the people of Eastern Washington,” said McMorris. “By reaching across party lines, I have worked with members of the delegation to protect our low energy rates, provide valuable services to our veterans, expand the use of health information technology, improve education and increase competitiveness, provide relief to farmers, protect and expand our local air force base, and secure our northern border.” Job creation and economic growth. McMorris has supported policies that grow our economy, help small businesses, assist our agriculture and resource based economy, create a skilled workforce, and bring new jobs to Eastern Washington. Passed amendment enhancing competitiveness in math, science and foreign language Successfully kept Perkins Loan Program intact in FY06 and FY07 budgets Secured funding for vital transportation infrastructure including the North-South Corridor, Bridging the Valley, Hwy 12, Fleshman Way, and I-90 widening Helped stop the Administration’s proposal to increase BPA rates Supported tax incentives for alterative fuel and energy sources including wind, biofuels, and fuel cell technology Sponsored legislation to permanently repeal the Death Tax Supported class action lawsuit reform, to curb litigation costs for small businesses. Voted to extend tax relief to help small businesses and families Co-sponsored a balanced budget amendment to restore fiscal discipline to Washington D.C. Introduced legislation to require Endangered Species Act (ESA) cost transparency Introduced legislation to help Eastern Washington wheat farmers by providing counter-cyclical reform Supported energy assistance for farmers Secured critical funding for agricultural research at WSU’s Johnson Hall Chaired a Task Force to update and strengthen the National Environment Policy Act (NEPA) to put commonsense back in environmental decision making Co-sponsored the Forest Emergency Recovery and Research Act to speed forest recovery and restoration efforts following forest fires. Increasing access to quality and affordable healthcare. McMorris has consistently supported legislation that strengthens health care delivery and ensures access to quality health care in rural areas. Passed the Medicaid Access Project through Information Technology (MAP IT) Act as an amendment Introduced the Rural Health Training Incentive Act of 2005 and WWAMI to increase healthcare access, and strengthen programs to recruit and train primary care doctors to practice in underserved areas Co-sponsored Associated Health Plan and Health Saving Account legislation to allow small businesses to band together to offer health insurance coverage Co-sponsored the HEALTH Act to bring much needed medical liability reform to health care providers in Eastern Washington. Worked closely with the Congressional delegation, Veterans Affairs Secretary Nicholson, the Local Advisory Panel and the community to ensure regional veterans have access to healthcare in Walla Walla. Supported increasing veterans medical care funding by 16% Held seven senior roundtable events and co- sponsored the Senior Independence Act to strengthen programs and services for seniors. Keeping our nation and communities safe. Cathy McMorris know what it takes to keep our nation and communities safe and has supported legislation to provide our law enforcement and U.S. Armed Forces with the tools and resources they need to complete their missions. Successfully fought to maintain and enhance the mission of Fairchild Air Force Base and is working to secure replacement KC-135 tankers. Co-sponsored the Children’s Safety Act to protect our children from sex offenders Co-sponsored Meth Epidemic Elimination Act, supported funding for the Washington State Meth Initiative, and is a member of the Speaker’s Drug Task Force Co-Sponsored the Northern Border Prosecution Initiative Reimbursement Act Held crime town halls with local, state and federal law enforcement officials to continue to make Eastern Washington a safe place to live, work and raise a family. Supported appropriations to improve military quality of life, and increased overall funding for veterans by $12 billion.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) sent a letter today to Veterans Affairs Secretary James Nicholson and Dennis “Max” Lewis, Director, VA Northwest Health Network, seeking answers to what happened the night of October 6th at the Spokane Veterans Medical Center regarding care to veteran Clinton Fuller. McMorris asked for a clarification of procedures, and stressed the need to do more to inform patients of the Urgent Care operating hours and capability. “This incident has raised questions about VA procedures and the availability of quality care for veterans,” said McMorris. “We need to make sure we are doing everything possible to give our Veterans the information they need and deserve regarding their care.” A copy of the letter sent to Secretary Nicholson and Mr. Lewis follows: I am concerned about the treatment of a veteran at the Spokane Veterans Medical Center (VAMC) on Friday, October 6th. This unfortunate incident highlights the need for better communication between the hospital and our local veterans regarding the hours of the VA Urgent Care Center. My office was notified this past summer about the VA closing Urgent Care after hours. At that time, there were many issues raised about what will happen with veterans who need treatment past 4:30 p.m. Two weeks ago my office again inquired to the Director of the Spokane VAMC about these concerns. Sadly, I have heard from veterans that when they call the after hours phone number they are being told that the VA cannot advise whether or not to go to an emergency room and if the VA will pay for the service. My office was told there would be plans in place so that a good diagnosis could be made and determined if the veteran is having an emergency or not. The VAMC needs to do better communicating with our veterans where to go for care when the clinic closes and provide them assurance that their costs are taken care of if they go to emergency room. We should be able to settle these concerns and get the best treatment for our veterans. I want to know that the VA is doing the absolute best for our veterans and most importantly, talking to our veterans and making sure they are receiving adequate information about after hour services and coverage for costs. I look forward to your quick response to this request. Best Wishes, Cathy McMorris Member of Congress
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris called today’s news that the budget deficit has been cut in half three years ahead of schedule “a huge step in the right direction.” The U.S. Budget deficit in fiscal year 2006 narrowed by $71 billion in one year going from $319 billion to $248 billion. It is the smallest budget deficit gap since 2002. "These latest numbers are proof that the tax cuts work and are spurring economic growth," said McMorris. "I am proud to have voted to extend the tax cuts that will provide over two million people in Washington state with lower taxes. By letting people keep more of their own hard-earned money, they are able to reinvest it into the economy which ultimately increases revenue in the federal treasury. However, I remain concerned about our deficit, and believe we must continue to look for ways to cut spending and restore fiscal discipline." The tax cuts have created a strong economy and historic revenue growth. The United States has witnessed two years of record revenue growth. Revenues in FY 2005 were $2.153 trillion, the largest in history, and 14.5 percent higher then the previous year. This year's revenues of $2.407 billion represented an 11.8 percent increase from the previous year. In Congress, McMorris has supported policies to restrain spending and increase government efficiency. She is a cosponsor of the Balanced Budget Amendment, supported the Deficit Reduction Act that will save $40 billion over five years, voted to eliminate over 50 federal programs, and voted to give the President line-item veto authority to increase transparency and eliminate wasteful spending.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) announced today that the Ferry County Public Hospital in Republic, WA has received a $111,722 grant under the Distance Learning and Telemedicine Grant Program administered by USDA-Rural Development. "Access to quality health care is critical to our rural communities, said McMorris. “Funding for Telemedicine will help give people in the Tri County area more health care options. I was proud to work with Ron O' Halloran to support this project and hope we can continue to work together to support rural health care throughout Eastern Washington." McMorris wrote a letter in support of Ferry County Public Hospital’s telemedicine program when they applied for the USDA-Rural Development grant last June. The funding received through this grant will allow Ferry County Public Hospital to facilitate the purchase of videoconference units for the following locations: Republic Medial Clinic Curlew Medical Clinic Ferry County Community Services City of Republic Officer Training Room Newport Medical Training Center Mount Carmel Hospital Stevens County Sheriff’s Ambulance Service Northeast Tri-County Health District Spokane Tribal Volunteer EMS and Fire Training Facility The project also includes future plans to utilize SimMan units in conjunction with the videoconference equipment to provide the much needed training for our EMS personnel, nurses, and other health care providers. “We appreciate this opportunity to work with the USDA RUS DLT program to provide expanded educational opportunities that might otherwise be unavailable to rural communities,” said Ron O’Halloran, Adminstrator, Ferry County Public Hospital District.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05) is honoring Walla Walla veteran David O’Neill by awarding the Jubilee of Liberty Medal for his service in the Battle of Normandy during World War II. The ceremony will take place at 11:00am on Saturday, October 21, 2006, at Quail Run Retirement Community located at 1707 Plaza Way in Walla Walla. “It is important that we honor our veterans and remember the sacrifice they made to ensure America’s freedom and security,” said McMorris, “Mr. O’Neill is an example of the courage our soldiers displayed during World War II, and I am grateful for the opportunity to recognize him and all other individuals who have served our country in times of war.” The Jubilee of Liberty Medal was created by the Regional Council of Lower Normandy and the Governor of Normandy to honor veterans who fought during the battle which helped liberate France. The medals were originally awarded at a 50th Anniversary celebration held in Normandy in 1994. Many Washington State veterans were unable to receive their medal at the time, and now McMorris is working to ensure these veterans receive the recognition they deserve. Her efforts in this area are a continuation of those made by former Congressman George Nethercutt. McMorris would like to honor all eligible Army Air Corps and Navy veterans who were at Normandy between June 6th and September 15th 1944. To receive the Jubilee of Liberty Medal, the veteran or the veteran’s family will need to submit an application and the veteran’s discharge paperwork (Army Air Corps: AGO 53-55, Navy: NavPers 553). The application can be obtained at McMorris’ website or by calling the Spokane District Office at (509) 353-2374.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris today acknowledged that the KC-135 Stratotanker safety modification project will provide economic benefits to the region, yet also highlights the need to secure replacement air refueling tankers. Major General Timothy Lowenberg today signed a Memorandum of Agreement for the Washington Air National Guard to conduct a KC-135 safety modification project. The project will add new full time Air Guard positions and will generate approximately $2 million per year in local salaries. “Today’s announcement is a tribute to the great work being done by our Air National Guard,” said McMorris. “Fairchild is the number one employer in our region and it is always positive to expand missions at the base and create more jobs,” said McMorris. “However, instead of investing more money into 40-year old planes, we must also be actively working to secure replacement tankers. I have seen firsthand that these tankers are an overstressed, aging active duty fleet. This new project further highlights the importance of getting these new tankers to the base as soon as possible.” Last August, McMorris met with U.S. Air Force Commander General Duncan McNabb who gave his assurance that he hopes to bring the first fleet of KC-X tankers to Fairchild Air Force Base because of the training capabilities, ramp space and the great support from the community. “I will continue to move forward with our goal of expanding the missions at Fairchild and making it a joint operations base.”
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris today joined the Northwest Congressional Delegation in urging the Bush Administration to reject efforts in its FY 08 budget that would change the Bonneville Power Administration’s (BPA) rate structure or require market based rates. “Our region’s economy was built on inexpensive hydro-power,” said McMorris. “I was pleased to join with our regional delegation to ask the Administration to leave BPA alone and not jeopardize our energy rates.” The letter, signed by Members from Washington, Oregon, Idaho, and Montana, asks the Administration to consider the following three areas as it prepares its FY 2008 budget. Those areas include opposing efforts to: require federal power marketing administrations, such as Bonneville, to sell power at market based rates; change the rate structure at BPA, and alter the accounting treatment of third-party financing arrangements for infrastructure improvements. Over the past two years McMorris has testified before the House Budget Committee in opposition to the changes the Administration has proposed making to BPA.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris today announced that Jack Silzel has been appointed by the Administration to serve as Executive Director of the USDA Farm Service Agency (FSA) for Washington State. “This is a win for Eastern Washington and our state’s agriculture economy,” said McMorris. “Jack Silzel is uniquely qualified for this important position. He has tremendous experience with federal farm policy as well as hands on experience as a life-long farmer in Eastern Washington.” As Director of FSA, Silzel will administer and manage farm commodity, credit, conservation, disaster, and loan programs in Washington state. These programs are designed to improve the economic stability of our agriculture industry and help farmers adjust production to meet demand. The FSA headquarters for Washington state is located in Spokane, WA. Silzel spent just over 10 years in Washington, DC as the Agriculture Policy director for then Congressman George Nethercutt and Legislative Director for Congresswoman Cathy McMorris. He and his family maintain a wheat farm in Oakesdale. He is a graduate of Whitman College and is married to Sharon.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris released the following statement in response to a press conference held today by special interest groups regarding the removal of the dams on the Snak e River system: “It greatly concerns me that environmental groups are so quickly pushing for the removal of dams in the Pacific Northwest. Every session there are members who introduce legislation to remove or breach our dams. We must do everything possible to protect our dams and ensure that they remain a viable source of renewable energy production. These special interest groups choose to ignore the facts. We have proven that keeping our dams and having healthy salmon does not have to be mutually exclusive. Removal of the dams would only cause detrimental harm to the economy and lifestyle of the Pacific Northwest. Our dams provide 40 percent of our region’s electicity and are a major source of renewable energy. They also provide water for irrigation, which is critical to our agriculture industry, help manage flood control, and provide for recreational opportunities. We need to develop the multipurpose use of our rivers that protects the salmon, without calling for drastic steps such as the removal of all dams.”
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris today recognized November 30th as National Methamphetamine Awareness Day and highlighted the importance of fighting the war on meth and keeping the drug out of our communities. “Methamphetamine is an extremely dangerous drug and we must make it a priority to educate our children and young adults about the risks associated with it,” said McMorris. “The dangers of meth are high because it is easily produced, readily accessible and highly additive. The use of meth has numerous social costs and also leads to increased crime. We must continue to work to stop the spread of meth in Eastern Washington and throughout the country.” In Spokane it is estimated that 80% of crime and 90% of check fraud is drug and meth related. In 2004, Washington ranked 6th in the country in total meth seizures, ahead of California. This past year, the President signed into law the Methamphetamine Epidemic Elimination Act (H.R. 3889), which McMorris cosponsored. It is the first comprehensive anti-meth legislation to be signed into law. This legislation will help stop the spread of meth by making it more difficult to obtain the necessary ingredients to manufacture meth and by tightening criminal penalties for those who traffic in this dangerous drug. In an effort to help meet the unique needs of children who are taken away from drug homes, McMorris has started a program to collect and donate stuffed animals to give to law enforcement to distribute locally. When children are taken away from a meth home they cannot bring anything with them – not even a blanket or teddy bear. Since the beginning of the year, McMorris has collected over a 100 stuffed animals that have been distributed to children throughout Eastern Washington. McMorris is also a member of The Congressional Caucus to Fight and Control Methamphetamine. The Caucus works to raise national awareness of the dangers posed by meth abuse and to advance strong public policy to fight against meth manufacturing, distribution, and use.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris today voted in favor of H.R. 6408, the Tax Relief and Health Care Act of 2006. This legislation includes a number of tax extenders such the state and local sales tax deductions, allows for further exploration of the Outer Continental Shelf, makes improvements to Health Savings Accounts, and fixes Medicare physician payments. “Passing an extension of the state sales tax deduction was my top priority before the 109th Congress adjourned,” said McMorris. “Washington state residents should not be forced to pay higher taxes simply because they live in a state that does not have a state income tax. It is a matter of fairness. Extending the sales tax deduction will allow the average family to keep approximately $550 more a year.” Tax Extenders The sales tax deduction provision creates parity among states by allowing all taxpayers the option to deduct their state sale taxes in lieu of their state and local income taxes. The Americans Job Creation Act of 2004 restored the sales tax deduction for residents of Washington and eight others states that do not have a state income tax. In 2004, the deduction was utilized by over 925,000 Washington taxpayers, who were able to keep more than $500 million of their hard earned dollars. Other tax extenders in the bill include the Research and Development tax credit, above-the-line deduction for higher education expenses, treating combat pay as earned income for purposes of the earned income credit calculation, and above-the-line deduction for out-of-pocket teacher classroom expenses. Energy Provisions H.R.6408 also allows for exploration of the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS), which will increase our domestic oil and natural gas supply. The United States is currently the only developed nation in the world that does not allow energy production off its shores. Exploration in the OCS will also help Eastern Washington farmers who currently suffer from high fuel and fertilizer costs, as natural gas is a key component in the production of fertilizer. The Legislation also provides a number of tax credits for the production and use of renewable energy products and for having energy efficient buildings and homes. Health Provisions H.R. 6408 contains a number of provisions to improve Health Savings Accounts, which has the potential of creating more options and lowering health insurance costs for individuals. The legislation allows rollovers from health Flexible Spending Accounts and Health Reimbursement Account into Health Savings Accounts, and also allows for a one-time rollover from Individual Retirement Accounts into Health Savings Accounts. A fix to Medicare physician payments is also included in H.R. 6408. It provides a payment update for all physicians in 2007 and provides an additional payment for physicians that report quality measures to ensure both continued beneficiary access and improved quality of care. In addition, it extends several expiring provisions including those applicable to rural payments to physicians, direct payments to independent laboratories for physician pathology services, wage index reclassifications, and Medicare reasonable cost payments for lab tests in small rural hospitals.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris present a Purple Heart and Army Commendation Medal today to Specialist Alex Love for the injuries he sustained while serving in Operation Iraqi Freedom. “I am honored to have the opportunity to present Specialist Alex Love with his Purple Heart,” said Cathy McMorris. “He deserves to be recognized and thanked for his courageous service to our country. We should never forget that the men and women who fight for our country and serve our military are truly American heroes.” On January 4th, 2005, a vehicle borne explosive device detonated close to the barracks that (then) Private First Class Alex Love was in. This powerful explosion destroyed a nearby Iraqi National Guard checkpoint and the shockwaves from the explosion imploded all the windows of the barracks. Love was treated for injuries to his upper body and back and later returned to active duty. McMorris’ office worked with the Veterans Outreach Center to help secure the award for Love, who did not realize that he was eligible for a Purple Heart until he returned to the United States. McMorris’ office and the Veterans Outreach Center obtained the paper work needed to prove Love’s injuries and on November 2nd, 2006 the Department of the Army awarded Love with the Purple Heart and Army Commendation Medal.
12.29.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris announced today that the USDA will fund a $24.5 million loan for the extension of broadband services to residents in 54 counties in Oregon and Washington. Communities in Eastern Washington to receive expanded services include Othello, Clarkston, Cheney, Tonasket, and College Place. “The availability of high-speed Internet access in rural areas will promote economic growth and development in our local communities,” said McMorris. “Broadband is a great equalizer and an invaluable asset: it provides small businesses with access, creates the ability to work from anywhere – not just at a city desk, gives students greater opportunities for education, provides a base for our first-responder to utilize in case of an emergency, and will play an integral part in telehealth so someone in Tonasket can have access to the best doctors in Spokane and Seattle. Expanding service also has the added benefit of increasing competition, which will ultimately drive down prices and improve service.” The loan is part of the USDA Rural Development Telecommunications Broadband Program. The loan will be provided to CTURN Corporation, based in Salem, Oregon, and will be used to construct a fixed wireless broadband network. The Broadband loan program authorizes USDA Rural Development to make loans to deploy broadband service to communities with a population of 20,000 or less, with the first priority going to communities without broadband service. The loans are low interest and allow for the technology to be market driven. Since the program was first established in 2003, USDA has provided 63 loans totaling almost $1.1 billion. For more information, visit USDA’s website.
12.28.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris, along with members of the Washington delegation, sent a letter today to General Steven Blum supporting the establishment of an administrative headquarters for 8 RC-26B counter-narcotics aircrafts at Fairchild Air Force Base. The 141st Air Refueling Wing would serve as the host wing and would provide assistance with mission planning, support planning, and logistics support. The planes would occupy the space vacated by the KC-135s lost by the 141st ARW during the Base Realignment and Closure Process. “I will continue to advocate for new ways to expand the role and mission of Fairchild Air Force Base,” said McMorris. “Fairchild has both the facility space and the capability to host an RC-26B headquarters. This is an excellent opportunity to bring new aircrafts to Fairchild, improve homeland security operations world-wide and regionally, and contribute to the eventual settlement of Washington’s BRAC litigation.”
12.28.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris was sworn into office today and began her second term representing the Fifth Congressional District of Washington in the United States Congress. “It continues to be my honor to serve the people of Eastern Washington in Congress,” said McMorris. “While being sworn into office, I was reminded of the tremendous responsibility and trust bestowed on us. We must never lose sight of the job we were elected to serve, and always remember that the real power in Congress lies with the people. “As one of only 71 women currently serving in the House of Representatives, it was a historic moment to witness the first woman to be elected as Speaker of the House. I congratulate Speaker Pelosi on this important milestone. “Members from both sides of the aisle spoke today about putting partisan differences aside and working together for what’s best for America. I hope those words are turned into action as the 110th Congress proceeds. We can disagree without being disagreeable. “My top priority continues to be to serve the people of Eastern Washington and focus on the key issues that impact our daily lives. Over the next two years I will work to increase economic opportunities and job growth, expand our transportation infrastructure, provide necessary care and services to our veterans, improve access to affordable health care, promote the expansion of health information technology, create a skilled workforce, assist our farmers, protect our natural resources, secure our borders, and fight to keep our communities safe.”
12.28.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (WA-05), Congressman Doc Hastings (WA-04), and Congressman Dave Reichert (WA-08) jointly opposed a Democrat plan that contains a thinly disguised attempt to raise taxes on Washington residents. The package includes important earmark reform that would bring much-needed transparency to the process. However, in an unfortunate, politically motivated move, a rule known as “pay-go” was attached that will almost certainly lead to higher taxes on American workers, families and businesses that create jobs. “I will continue to support policies that lower taxes and promote fiscal responsibility,” said Congresswoman McMorris. “I believe in a balanced budget, earmark reform, and fiscal discipline. However, it is a mistake to believe that this proposal leads to fiscal responsibility. We do not have a revenue problem, we have a spending problem. This reform will only open the door to tax increases.” “It’s the second day of the new Congress, and already Democrats are making it easier to raise taxes,” said Congressman Hastings. “Attempting to balance the budget through tax increases rather than spending cuts is irresponsible and would slow economic growth” “I’ve consistently supported greater public disclosure of federal spending and will be the first to attach my name to earmark requests and justify the need for the expenditure,” said Congressman Reichert. “Taxpayers deserve to know how their hard-earned dollars are spent. But I cannot support a reform package that will almost certainly lead to higher taxes on these same hard-working taxpayers. I agree with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle that we need fiscal discipline. But the way to reduce the deficit is to rein in federal spending and cut taxes. Tax cuts spur economic growth and create jobs. It is not to raise taxes on families and small businesses.” This opposition to pay-go comes on the heels of a combined effort this week by Washington State's delegation to permanently extend the state sales tax deduction. Failing to extend the deduction would amount to a tax increase on Washington families. Hastings, McMorris and Reichert joined other members of Washington State's congressional delegation in support of H.R. 60, a bi-partisan bill offered Thursday to make permanent the deduction of state sales tax. At every opportunity, Hastings, McMorris and Reichert have worked in a bi-partisan way to protect this important provision for Washington State taxpayers.
12.28.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris today announced her support for legislation (H.R. 17) that will help rural areas in Eastern Washington. McMorris co-sponsored the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Reauthorization Act of 2007, to reauthorize the county payment program for an additional seven years. “The Secure Rural Schools program is essential for the livelihood of our rural communities in Eastern Washington,” said McMorris. “The Federal Government owns over 30% of our land in Washington state. Without revenue from timber receipts, along with the inability to tax federal land, these communities don’t have enough money to provide essential community services. I remain hopeful that we will be able to find funding for the reauthorization of this program.” Prior to the Secure Rural School Program, counties that hosted federal land from which timber was cut, received a share from the federal government of the timber receipts. This money was used to fund schools, road improvements, fire stations, and police protection. Yet as federal timber sales declined, the funding received by the counties for community services also declined. In 2000, The Secure Rural Schools and Community Self Determination Act was passed that established a six-year payment formula for counties based on historic timber receipts. Since taking office, McMorris has supported the reauthorization of this crucial program and was a co-sponsor of this legislation during her first term.
12.28.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris and husband Brian Rodgers announced today that they are expecting a baby boy in May. This is the first child for the couple who married last August. “This past year has been filled with many blessings for Brian and I, and we are thrilled to be starting our family,” said McMorris. “While it will be challenging at times, I am excited for the months and years ahead. With the love and support of my husband, family and friends I will learn how to best balance both work and family. “My focus and commitment continues to be serving Eastern Washington. I will still be able to return home for the February and April breaks, and plan to travel throughout the district, making myself available to the people. I continue to serve on key committees in Congress that are crucial to our region and will manage the schedule to minimize the number of votes that I miss. I look forward to August recess when I will truly be able to take our baby home, and introduce him to Eastern Washington.”
12.28.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris announced today that she will continue serving on the Natural Resources, Armed Services, and Education and Labor Committees in the 110th Congress. Subcommittee assignments have yet to be determined. “These three Committees are critical to Eastern Washington and I am pleased that I will be able to build on the work started in my first term,” said McMorris. “These Committees allow me to best serve the needs of our region. From Fairchild Air Force Base and veterans, to our agriculture and natural resources economy, to creating a 21st century workforce, I will be able to continue my work on the priorities and projects important to Eastern Washington.” The Natural Resources Committee has jurisdiction over a wide range of issues including national forests, public lands, mining, irrigation and reclamation, energy, fisheries and wildlife, and Native American affairs. While serving on this committee, McMorris has held several field hearings in Eastern Washington examining forest recovery efforts and the importance of our dams on the Columbia and Snake River Systems. She also chaired a Task Force on strengthening the National Environmental Policy Act. The primary responsibility of the House Armed Services Committee is ensuring we have a trained and equipped military with the necessary resources to keep our country safe. McMorris will use her position on the committee to work on local defense issues and identify opportunities to expand the missions at Fairchild Air Force Base. The Education and Labor Committee has jurisdiction over education from K-12 to post-secondary, and oversees all matter dealing with relationships between employers and employees. Eastern Washington is home to six universities and several community colleges. She has worked to improve access to higher education by fighting to save the Perkins Loan program. To give employers access to a skilled workforce and improve education opportunities, McMorris plans on reintroducing the American Competitiveness Act. This legislation puts more advanced placement math, science and foreign language teachers in the classroom and also allows for adjunct professors who are experts in these fields to teach at high schools.
12.28.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris released the following statement in response to the President’s speech outlining a new Iraq strategy: “It is clear that a new plan is needed for stabilizing Iraq. The situation there is deteriorating and sectarian violence continues to escalate. The American people deserved to hear tonight an acknowledgement of mistakes and new efforts to better involve military leaders, members of Congress and national experts in discussions. “The new strategy outlined tonight is worth our consideration. However, if the United State’s role is to make a difference, the Iraqi government must follow through on stated intentions. The Iraqis need to take action to prove their commitment to securing and governing their own country. In addition to the plan to address sectarian violence, the Iraqis must also step up to new security responsibilities, equitable distribution of oil revenues, a new de-Ba’athifcation law, and make progress on their constitution. “While an increase in troops may lead to short-term stability in Baghdad, long-term success is dependent on the Iraqi government being able to sustain the work done by U.S. troops. Increased training of Iraqi troops is crucial. I was pleased to see this plan call for the Iraqis taking the lead and supplying the majority of the new troops with the U.S. troops embedded within Iraqi brigades in order to provide support, training and enforcement. “Secretary of Defense Robert Gates will be testifying in front of the House Armed Services Committee tomorrow and I am anxious to learn more details of this new direction. I do have concerns about the duration of increased troops levels, and the strain and pressure this plan might place on National Guard units. I look forward to a thoughtful discussion regarding this new strategy.”
12.28.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris and USDA Rural Development will present a Distance Learning and Telemedicine Grant of $111,772 to Ferry County Public Hospital District #1 on Saturday, January 13th at 11:00 am at the New Assisted Living Facility, 38 Klondike Rd, Republic, WA. The grant will be presented preceding a public open house of the hospital’s new assisted living facility, which was also funded by USDA Rural Development with a $5 million Community Facilities Direct Loan. “This USDA Distance Learning and Telemedicine Grant will not only improve medical services at Ferry County Public Hospital District # 1, but revolutionize the way people in Republic, and all throughout Ferry County, receive health care,” said Congresswoman Cathy McMorris. “I am a strong advocate for the development of Health IT and the expansion of our broadband infrastructure. The use of telemedicine will allow people in rural areas to receive the type of health care that may have only previously been available in larger cities.” "USDA Rural Development is proud to partner with the hospital on this project, which connects communities to medical services and educational opportunities they would not otherwise have," said Jon DeVaney, State Director. "This grant will allow the hospital to provide the latest medical training to its staff and timely, high-quality care to the residents of Ferry County.” The Distance Learning and Telemedicine Grant program (DLT) was created to encourage, improve, and make affordable the use of telecommunications, computer networks and related technology for rural communities to improve access to educational and/or medical services. Ferry County Public Hospital District #1 will use the grant to purchase videoconferencing units for the purpose of distance learning. The project will utilize a SimMan training tool to provide valuable on-site medical training to the local workforce. USDA Rural Development awarded a loan in the amount of $5 million dollars to the Ferry County Public Hospital District # 1 in May 2005 to add a new wing to the existing hospital. The addition houses a new 16-unit Assisted Living facility project as well as a community meeting space, physician offices, and physical therapy offices. The Ferry County Hospital is designated as a Critical Access Hospital (CAH), which the Bush Administration has identified as a priority for funding.
12.28.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris was named ranking member of the Water and Power Subcommittee today by Natural Resources Committee Ranking Member Don Young (R-AK). As the lead Republican on this Subcommittee, McMorris will work to expand and protect the water and power infrastructure that is crucial to the Pacific Northwest. “This subcommittee has jurisdiction over several issues that directly impact Eastern Washington and our economy,” said McMorris. “Whether it is agriculture, manufacturing, technology, domestic or municipality needs, we have multiple demands for limited water and renewable energy resources. As the lead Republican, I will work to ensure balanced use of our Snake and Columbia River systems, safeguard our water rights, explore water storage options, protect our dams, ensure the use of hydropower to provide low-cost renewable energy, seek options for the Odessa Aquifer, and maintain reliable and affordable transmission systems for our region. I look forward to working with the Chair of the Subcommittee and hope that we will be able to find common ground in order to meet our water and power supply needs.” “During her first term, Representative McMorris proactively worked on behalf of Northwest electricity ratepayers and demonstrated proven leadership on vital water and energy issues,” said Congressman Don Young. “As ranking member of the Subcommittee, I am confident that McMorris will lend a strong voice to the debate and protect our much-needed water and power infrastructure.” McMorris was selected by Congressman Young as ranking member because of the Subcommittee’s relevance to Eastern Washington, her demonstrated interest and knowledge of the subject matter, and her leadership on the Resources Committee and in the House of Representatives. She previously served as Vice-Chair of this Subcommittee in the last Congress. During the 110th Congress, the Subcommittee will focus on a number of issues including: Providing low-cost energy through hydropower generated at federal dams and reservoirs The use of surface and groundwater storage to help meet population growth and ease the impacts of droughts and environmental mandates Responsible development of electricity rights-of-way to bring the western grid into the 21st century The impact of the Endangered Species Act on western water and power supply Expanding the role of non-traditional water supply projects, such as water recycling Protecting critical federal water and power infrastructure from post 9/11 terrorist attacks
12.28.2008	(Washington, DC) –Congresswoman Cathy McMorris today voted in favor of H.R. 5, The College Student Relief Act of 2007, which gradually reduces over a five year period the interest rates on subsidized Stafford student loans. Although supportive of the bill, McMorris believes more needs to be done to expand access to college education and address rising tuition costs. “While well-intentioned, I was disappointed that this bill does nothing to increase students’ access to college,” said McMorris. “Reducing interest rates will help graduates with debt relief, but will not help the student who is currently struggling to meet the costs associated with higher education. We must do more to fund programs, like the Perkins Loan Program or Pell Grants, which actually do increase access and opportunities.” “When addressing student aid, we must also look at rising tuition costs and the impact that is having on a student’s ability to afford college,” continued McMorris. “Tuition rates have risen above the costs of inflation. Congress should also examine the correlation between increases in federal loans and increases in college tuition. I hope that we will soon be able to address these issues.” Over the past ten years, Washington State University and University of Washington have increased tuition and fees by 82 percent. In that same time, Washington’s per capita personal income increased by only 40 percent and inflation increased by only 22 percent. McMorris worked her way through college and is still in the process of paying off student loans. As the first in her family to graduate from college, she is committed to ensuring that every student has access to higher education. For the past two years, McMorris has worked to restore funding to the Perkins Loan Program, which provides valuable financial assistance to disadvantaged students who might not otherwise be able to attend college. Rather than increasing loan opportunities for students, this bill will gradually reduce the interest rate of the subsidized Stafford loan from 6.8 percent to 3.4 percent over five years. The 3.4 percent interest rate would only stay in effect for six months, from July 1, 2011 through January 1, 2012.
12.28.2008	(Washington, D.C.) The Congressional Women’s Caucus announced today that Congresswoman Cathy McMorris (R-WA) and Congresswoman Lois Capps (D-CA) have been elected to serve as Co-Chairs of the bipartisan caucus. A “passing of the gavel” ceremony will be held tomorrow Tuesday, January 23rd at 5:30 PM in the Rayburn House Office Building B369. “The Women’s Caucus is a unique opportunity to work in a bipartisan fashion on issues that impact women here in the United States and throughout the world,” said McMorris. “As female leaders, it is important that we are able to come together to promote solutions to the problems facing young girls, women and families. I look forward to co-chairing this caucus with Congresswoman Lois Capps and working on a new legislative agenda that will further the cause and help inspire women worldwide.” “I am truly honored to have been selected by my Democratic colleagues to serve as Co-Chair of the Women’s Caucus,” said Capps. “For thirty years this ground breaking organization has worked to improve the lives of women by casting aside partisanship and embracing cooperation. In the 110th Congress the Women’s Caucus will continue this proud tradition of bipartisanship, setting an example that I hope all of our colleagues will embrace. Time and again the Women’s Caucus has demonstrated that we can best serve our constituents and the country by working together. Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers is a talented Representative who shares this strong commitment. I look forward to working closely with her and the rest of the Women’s Caucus over the next two years as we pursue our bipartisan agenda to help women and their families.” Founded in 1977, the Congressional Women’s Caucus has been a leading advocate for issues to improve the lives of women and families. They have helped pass legislation on a variety of women’s issues including equitable pay, tougher child support enforcement, promoting women’s health and protecting victims of domestic violence and sexual assault.
12.28.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris released the following statement in response to the President’s State of the Union address: “In tonight’s State of the Union address, I was pleased to see the President reach out to Congress and show a willingness to work with both sides. While not always easy, I believe it is possible to work through differences in order to achieve great things for our country. “The President touched on several important domestic issues that are important to Eastern Washington. “We must continue to look for ways to address our country’s rising health care costs. In Eastern Washington, and throughout the country, we have a growing number of people who are uninsured. Nearly half of these people own or are employed by a small business. We must come together on this issue and look for ways to expand access to quality and affordable health care. “Energy independence also needs to be on the forefront of our domestic agenda. Our growing dependence on foreign oil creates serious concerns for both our economic and national security. We must take seriously the need to expand our efforts on developing renewable and alternative energy. In Eastern Washington there are companies making exciting technological breakthroughs in the areas of wind power, biofuel, and fuel cells. It is important that we support and expand these efforts.”
12.28.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris announced today that she received a 100% rating from key veterans groups including the American Veterans and the Vietnam Veterans of America for her work and votes during the 109th Congress. “We have an ongoing commitment to our veterans to provide them the funding, benefits, and health care they deserve for their service to our country,” said McMorris. “During my first term, I worked to be a champion for veterans. In addition to supporting them through my votes in Congress, I was actively involved in issues impacting Eastern Washington veterans. I continue to be an advocate for health care services in Walla Walla and Spokane, am working to establish a veteran’s cemetery in Spokane, and have helped hundreds of local veterans secure benefits. Looking forward, I am hopeful that the President’s budget for Fiscal Year 2008 will include adequate funding for veterans.” The Vietnam Veterans for America and the American Veterans gave a perfect score to McMorris for votes taken on legislation important to veterans including the Flag Protection Act, Veterans Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act, Veterans Benefits Improvement Act, Vietnam Veterans Memorial Visiting Center Act, Department of Veterans Affairs Information Technology Management Improvement Act, National Defense Authorization Appropriation bills, and Military Quality of Life and Veterans Affairs Appropriation bills. The Veterans of Foreign War released a list of veteran’s accomplishments during the 109th Congress, all of which were supported by McMorris. The accomplishments include ensuring that sufficient funding is appropriated for the Veterans Health Care Administration, ensuring that the VA disability compensation program is preserved in its current form to protect the needs of current and future veterans, securing authority and full funding for the GI Bill for the 21st century, and passing and authorizing a program to allow all disabled military retirees to full military retirement pay and full disability compensation without offset.
12.28.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris today co-sponsored H.R. 432, the Seniors Tax Simplification Act of 2007 that would allow seniors to file their federal income taxes on a new simplified form. “We have a growing senior population and there are simple steps we can take to make their lives easier,” said McMorris. “We have all experienced the confusion and frustration that can be associated with filing taxes every year. Senior citizens deserve to have the same options as others to use a simpler form when filing their returns.” Current IRS rules prohibit individuals who are age 65 or older from using the 1040EZ form when filing their taxes. Instead they are required to use more complicated forms, solely based on their age and not their financial situation. This legislation, supported by the AARP and the 60 Plus Association, would correct this problem by directing the IRS to develop a new form 1040S. This form would be similar to the 1040EZ, yet specifically designed for seniors who receive common types of retirement incomes. The IRS has estimated that as many as 11 million senior citizens would be able to take advantage of this simplified form in the first year.
12.28.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers today applauded the President’s efforts to balance the budget without raising taxes in his Fiscal Year 2008 budget proposal. While the budget does propose funding for programs important to Eastern Washington, McMorris Rodgers is critical of efforts to raise BPA rates and zero out funding for rural health programs and the Perkins Loan program. “Our budget must continue to support pro-growth policies that create jobs and allow people and businesses of Eastern Washington to keep more of their own money,” said Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers. “We can all find parts of the President’s budget with which we agree and disagree. It is important to remember that this budget is just a proposal, and that I will work in Congress to ensure that programs important to Eastern Washington receive the necessary funding.” “I was disappointed to see that funding for the 36th Rescue Flight Helicopter stationed at Fairchild Air Force Base was not included in the budget. I will continue to bring regional representatives together to stand up for the 36th and their crucial role in Eastern Washington.” Highlights of the President’s budget proposal include an extra $350 million for the program to replace the aging KC-135 refueling tankers at Fairchild Air Force Base. Funding was also included for the American Competitiveness program, which will put more teachers into the fields of math, science, and foreign language. As in past years, The FY08 budget proposal would require the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) to use surplus revenues to pay down their debt. It has the potential to increase consumer electricity rates by 10 percent by mandating that surplus revenues can only be used for debt reduction and not rate reduction. Last October, McMorris Rodgers joined with other members of the Northwest delegation in sending a letter to the Administration urging them to leave BPA rates alone. “Once again, the Administration has unfortunately chosen to target our region’s low energy rates through their BPA secondary rate proposal,” continued McMorris Rodgers. “Although this year they are encouraging a dialogue to take place before this proposal is implemented, that does not change the fact that using surplus revenues to pay down debt will only harm the economy of the Pacific Northwest. This proposal has failed in the past, and I am confident that this year will be no different. However, the third-party financing proposal also included in the budget is a positive step in allowing us to invest more in the needed expansion of our transmission system.” Missing from the President’s budget proposal is funding for crucial rural health programs that are important to Eastern Washington such as Outreach Grants and Flexibility Grants. These grants play an essential role in providing quality and affordable health care to rural communities. Finally, McMorris Rodgers will work to restore funding for the successful Perkins Loan Program, which was zeroed in the budget. For over 50 years, the Perkins Loan Program has offered long-term, low-interest loans to disadvantaged students. For the past two years, McMorris Rodgers has helped lead a bipartisan effort to restore funding.
12.28.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers announced today that she will be holding a series of agriculture listening sessions throughout Eastern Washington to discuss the upcoming Farm Bill. “There are several programs in the Farm Bill that will impact Eastern Washington agriculture,” said McMorris Rodgers. “The Farm Bill will be important to protect the budget baseline and farm programs such as loan deficiency payments and direct payments. It will also address the conservation security programs, conservation reserve program, crop insurance, and energy incentives. Throughout the process, I will work closely with our farmers and ranchers to ensure that programs important to Eastern Washington are crafted to meet our needs.” Time and Locations: Walla Walla February 22nd; 9:30 amWalla Walla Airport Conference Room310 A St. Ritzville February 22nd; 4:30 pmCircle T Restaurant214 W. Main Colfax February 23rd; 8:30 amColfax Public Service Building310 N. Main Spangle February 23rd; 11:30 amHarvester Restaurant410 W. 1st St. Springdale February 26th; 9:00 amCamas Valley Grange214 N. Main Davenport February 26th; 1:00 pmLincoln County Court HouseCommissioners Meeting Room450 Logan St.
12.28.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers today attended the Natural Resources Committee hearing on “The Evolving West.” Witnesses at the hearing, including Russ Vaagen, Vice President of Vaagen Brothers Lumber Company in Republic, Washington, focused on the necessity of protecting and preserving the resource industry that has long been the backbone of rural communities in Eastern Washington and throughout the West. “We all share a common goal for a vibrant West and a strong rural community,” said Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers. “Where we differ is how we measure our success and achieve that goal. In our quest to protect the environment, we have imposed burdensome regulations that are hurting our rural industries. These policies have increased the cost of doing business in the resources industries, pushing many farmers, ranchers and loggers out. The future of the West must include maintaining healthy forests, protecting our dams, and having a reliable and clean water supply.” Russ Vaagen testified at the hearing on the changes the timber industry has faced throughout the years. Through proper management and collaboration, Vaagen believes it is possible to have healthy forests and more timber harvested, while at the same time protecting other areas of the forest. “I was pleased to see that Russ made the trip from Northeast Washington and offered his expertise on the forest and timber industry,” continued McMorris Rodgers. “It is important for people here in D.C. to hear how people on the ground are managing the land and keeping it healthy.” Forests that are unmanaged are more susceptible to forest fires. The latest example in Eastern Washington was the Tripod Complex Fire, which burned over 200,000 acres last year on the Okanogan National Forest. The cost to suppress the fires was $100 million and is likely the costliest fire in Washington state history. The damage to the tourism-based industries was significant. Outfitters lost an estimated $30,000 in revenue and many snowmobile, hiking and horse trails will not be available for use by local residents or tourists. The Real Truth behind the ‘New American West’ Although rural communities in the West are undergoing changes, it is a mistake to believe that the importance of the agriculture and resources industry has diminished: Claim: Your next job will likely be in services. (Because we are transitioning from low-wage, low-skill industries to high-wage, high skill industries) Reality: Logging is a high-wage, high skill industry “One thing that people may not know is that in the rural communities some of the highest paying careers are in sawmills and jobs in the woods. In our area the average sawmill worker makes between $35,000 and $45,000 annually not including benefits. This makes up a very important part of the economic engine of our communities. A healthy sawmill infrastructure allows much more opportunity for specialty and value added manufacturing. Timber revenue in the rural west also generates tax dollars for the local governments. Sawmills and the resource industries are not the cornerstone of these rural western communities that they once were, but they play a vital role in the overall economic picture.” Russ Vaagen, Testimony to the House Natural Resources Hearing on the “Evolving West” Claim: Public lands benefit the economy of the West. (Value measure in revenues generated from hunters and anglers) Reality: If we don't measure value of agriculture, timber, and mining the only thing left is recreation and hunting. Value measured in hunting and angling normally calls for breaching the dams and trespassing. “The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers has estimated that breaching the dams would increase electricity bills for Northwest ratepayers by $300 million, add $40 million to transportation costs, eliminate 37,000 acres of prime irrigated farmland, wipe out 2,300 jobs, and cut personal income by $278 million a year. The Corps says the lion’s share of the impact would fall on Eastern Washington and the Columbia Basin. Entire farming communities dependent on irrigated cropland could disappear, and breaching the dams could be the death knell for Washington’s struggling aluminum industry, which relies heavily on affordable hydropower.” Don Brunell, President of Association of Washington Businesses, A Message to Judge Redden Claim: The extractive economy of the Old West is rare in the New West. (Few truly resources dependent counties left) Reality: There are few truly resources dependent counties left because of environmental regulations like the Endangered Species Act and the National Environmental Policy Act. “In a state like Idaho, it would be impossible to sustain a ranching operation, such as ours, without the use of public lands for grazing. In my county, Owyhee County, the federal government owns over 76% of the land. Nearly 40% of all cattle raised in the West spend some of their lives on public land allotments. The public lands are critical to the functioning of the livestock industry in the west. There are individuals and extremist organizations in our state and across the West who know this fact and have learned how to manipulate and distort the law in order to achieve their activist, destructive agendas. Through federal laws such as NEPA, they have essentially gained control of the federal lands and have taken the decision-making ability away from the federal agencies. In a system that is supposed to be fair and impartial, they have found judges who are almost certain to rule in their favor.” Brenda Richards, Testimony to the House Resources Committee, NEPA Task Force Claim: Agriculture is not growing (Importance in terms of jobs and income has diminished) Reality: Ag is a $1.1 billion dollar industry in Eastern Washington and the number one employer in the State of Washington. “Washingtonians live in a state that has experienced dramatic economic changes in the past year. For more than a decade, this state’s economy hummed along faster than the rest of the nation. Aerospace, biotechnology and the computer industry led the way while agriculture, the cornerstone on which our state was built, quietly continued to play a key role in our economy. Now, when Boeing has slashed more than 30,000 jobs in 12 months, the dot-com bubble has burst and our state trials the nation in job growth, agriculture remains one of the state’s economic cornerstones. In 2001, agriculture employed almost 179,000 people more than any other industry in Washington State.” Washington State Horticultural Association. Claim: Energy development has high opportunity costs. (Reserves in the intermountain West contain only a three-and-one half month supply of petroleum. Pursing these limited resources could jeopardize the emerging competitive advantage of the West quality of life.) Reality: We can have both. We can increase energy production and preserve our quality of life. “Montana can and will lead the way in producing clean and green energy for the entire county with wind power, biofuels, and fuels from coal. We will continue to promote the development of these resources in Montana through a host of incentives, and we will export these technologies as well. I am proud of the progress, but cognizant of the impacts as well. While the wages for our workers are increasing, so is the price of real estate. Growth will continue to put pressure on our recreational amenities and access to our public lands and rivers and streams. Montana is unique in the Rocky Mountains in that its citizens have a constitutional right to access our streams. That is why, for this generation and the next, I have proposed $15 million for purchase of more access sites on our rivers and streams and public lands, and more state parks.” Governor Brian Schweitzer, Testimony to the House Natural Resources Hearing on the “Evolving West.”
12.28.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today the bipartisan Congressional Caucus for Women’s Issues, led by Co-Chairs Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and Congresswoman Lois Capps (D-CA), will join Women’s Policy Inc. (WPI) in celebrating the 30th Anniversary of the Women’s Caucus. The bi-partisan event will honor the first woman Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), and recognize 30 years of remarkable leadership by the Women’s Caucus on issues such as violence against women, family and medical leave, retirement equity, civil rights, child care and support, and women’s health. The Caucus will formally announce its bipartisan legislative agenda for the 110th Congress at the gala. This “must pass” agenda includes action on the following: Genetic Information Nondiscrimination, addressing provisions in the reauthorization of No Child Left Behind to enhance Math and Science Education for girls, passing the HEART for Women Act, passing an International Women's Day Resolution, and placing more women's artwork in the Capitol. Earlier today the first item on this “must pass” agenda was accomplished as the Women’s Caucus helped lead the effort to pass H.Res.149, a resolution supporting the goals of International Women's Day. “Now is an exciting time to be a woman in Congress,” said Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers. “More women are serving in Congress today than ever before and are helping to prove that woman can indeed accomplish anything. It is an honor to serve with Lois Capps as Co-Chairs of the Congressional Women’s Caucus as it celebrates its 30th anniversary. The Caucus has a rich history of championing important women’s issues and I hope to continue that tradition by bringing new issues impacting women to the national forefront.” “This is a historic time for the Congressional Women's Caucus,” said Congresswoman Lois Capps. “Serving under the leadership of the first woman Speaker with a record number of women Members, the Women's Caucus is uniquely poised to have a greater voice than ever before in shaping the agenda of the Congress and the nation. I am honored to serve as Co-Chair with Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers as the Women's Caucus celebrates its 30th anniversary and seizes this historic opportunity.” “It is truly an honor to be a Vice-Chair of the Women’s Caucus on its 30th anniversary, especially at a time when there are a record number of women in Congress and leadership positions,” said Congresswoman Mary Fallin (R-OK). “All Americans should be proud of the enormous strides that women have made, in and out of Congress, in the last thirty years. Celebrating this day should remind us all that this great country truly is the land of opportunity, for men and women alike.” “The Congressional Women’s Caucus has made significant progress in the last 30 years by advancing issues that affect women and their families,” said Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky (D-IL). “Every single day, we are making great strides in improving women’s health, ending domestic violence and creating opportunities in the workplace. Just this afternoon, Congress passed our resolution to honor International Women’s Day. As the Vice Chair of the Women’s Caucus, I look forward to working with the Co-Chairs to promote a legislative agenda that is consistent with the goals outlined by this Caucus.” “Thanks to the Caucus’ efforts, women and their families have become safer, healthier and more economically secure over the past 30 years,” said Cynthia Hall, WPI President. “Whether it’s boosting federal funding for breast cancer research, curbing violence against women, or advancing countless other important issues, millions of women count on their champions on Capitol Hill to protect and advance their concerns.” “As a truly bipartisan Caucus with members representing a wide range of views and every corner of our country,” added Hall, “The Congressional Caucus for Women’s Issues is just the right group to advance these important national priorities.” The Women’s Caucus was founded on April 19th, 1977 by fifteen Congresswomen from both sides of the isle. Thirty years after its founding, the Women’s Caucus now boasts a record 73 Members.
12.28.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers today voted against H.R. 800, the Employee Free Choice Act, which eliminates employees’ right to a secret ballot when voting to join a union. This bill strips workers of their privacy and will harm small businesses in Eastern Washington whose employees may face coercion and intimidation to join a union. “This bill sidesteps a free and fair election process and subjects hardworking Americans to coercion and intimidation,” said Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers. “At a time when Spokane is proud to report twice the national average in job growth in manufacturing, high tech, and construction, this bill heads us in the wrong direction. It also has the potential to impact access to health care in Eastern Washington. We have all heard the concerns about a growing nursing workforce shortage. The card check process for unionization further puts health care at risk and would discourage much needed health professionals from entering into the field.” The health care industry in Eastern Washington has expressed serious concerns over this legislation believing it could prevent professionals from practicing. Professional employees in high demand fields such as nurses and lab technicians are currently difficult to recruit to rural areas. If subject to the pressure of a card check campaign, the employee may chose to work elsewhere. Representatives from local hospitals such as Ferry County Hospital and Dayton General Hospital have said this bill would “increase costs” and is a “slap in the face for collaboration between management and employees.” Numerous organizations throughout Eastern Washington are opposed to the “card-check” system including: Inland Pacific Chapter of Associated Builders and Contractors, the Eastern Washington Independent Electrical Contractors, and Greater Spokane Incorporated, which represents 1600 businesses and economic entities that employ over 110,000 individuals.
12.28.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and Tim Bishop (D-NY) are spearheading efforts to restore $100 million in funding to the Perkins Loan Program, which offers need-based, low-interest loans to students. McMorris Rodgers and Bishop recently sent a letter to Chairman David Obey and Ranking Member James Walsh of the Appropriations Subcommittee on Labor, HHS, Education and Related Agencies asking that this important program be preserved. The letter was signed by 69 Members of Congress. “As college costs continue to increase, it is crucial that we support loan and grant programs that give students more options and opportunities to receive a higher education,” said McMorris Rodgers. “The Perkins Loan Program provides valuable financial assistance to disadvantaged students who might not otherwise be able to attend college. This program is continually targeted in the Administration’s budget and, just like the past two years, I will fight to get funding restored.” The Perkins Loan Program has offered long-term, low-interest loans to students for nearly fifty years. This program is aimed at a specific need-based population of students, offering them a fixed 5 percent interest rate on the loan. The program also includes important loan forgiveness provisions for fields that address specific areas of national need. Thousands of students in Eastern Washington receive student loans through the Perkins Loan Program. During the average school year, approximately $8.7 million is disbursed to students at Eastern Washington colleges and universities through this program.
12.28.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers sent a letter today, signed by the entire Washington delegation, to the Chairmen and Ranking Members of the House and Senate Armed Services Committee asking them to restore funding for the 36th Rescue Flight Helicopters stationed at Fairchild Air Force Base. In coordination with McMorris Rodgers, the Idaho Congressional delegation will also be sending a letter of support. “I am grateful and proud that the delegation and our governor has come together on behalf of Fairchild in support of this life-saving unit that serves nearly all of Washington state, as well as parts of Idaho, Montana and Oregon,” said McMorris Rodgers. “The loss of these helicopters will impact the search-and-rescue capabilities of the region and the effectiveness of the Air Force Survival School. We remain committed to seeing this funding restored.” McMorris Rodgers has helped organize community support efforts on behalf of the 36th RQF. More than 500 letters from groups and individuals in Eastern Washington have been sent to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Community emphasizing the important role of the helicopters within the community.
12.28.2008	(Washington, D.C.) A group of 35 Washington Farm Bureau members recently traveled to Washington, D.C. to meet with members of Congress and their staff to discuss issues facing agriculture in our state. During that visit, the group presented Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-Colville) with the “Friend of Farm Bureau” award for her outstanding voting record on farm issues during the 109th Congress. McMorris Rodgers supported Farm Bureau on all but one of its priority votes during her freshman term in office. “Cathy was one of our strongest allies in the state legislature, and has become a leading advocate for farmers and ranchers as a member of Congress,” said Washington Farm Bureau President Steve Appel. “It was a pleasure to present her with the first of what I hope will be many more Friend of Farm Bureau awards.” In meetings with the Washington congressional delegation, Farm Bureau members discussed the need for meaningful immigration reform, including a guest worker program that can provide an adequate supply of legal workers for our state’s labor-intensive agricultural industry. The group also asked for congressional support of trade agreements that allow greater access to foreign markets for U.S. farm products, continued funding of Columbia River channel improvements and future water storage capacity projects in Washington state. “It is essential that our elected officials hear firsthand from farmers and ranchers how their votes in D.C. affect agriculture back home,” Appel explained. “This annual Farm Bureau trip gives farmers the chance to talk directly to our senators and representatives about the issues that impact them most.” In addition to Capitol Hill visits, Farm Bureau members attended a trade briefing at the Canadian Embassy, a press conference on Senate legislation to provide incentives to private landowners for endangered species recovery, and tours of the White House, U.S. Capitol Building and Library of Congress. Photo: (from left to right) Debbie Pearson, Don Smith, Jon Warling, John Pearson, Randy Neatherlin (back row), Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers, Debbie Vander Veen, Teresa Engelke, Jason Vander Veen, Steve Appel, Cheryl Ouellette, Bob Meeks, Raul de Leon, Hans-Jochen Engelke (back row), Aaron Golladay (back row), Alisa de Leon, Paula Forester, Britt Dudek, Kennon Forester.
12.28.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers announced today that Shelia Stalp will be the new Northern Deputy District Director and will run her Congressional office in Colville. She will cover the four northern counties of Eastern Washington including Okanogan, Ferry, Stevens and Pend Oreille. “Sheila will be a tremendous addition to our team,” said McMorris Rodgers. “She has lived and worked in Colville for nearly 40 years and understands the issues that are important to the region including economic development, access to rural health care, and supporting our agriculture and resource industry.” Stalp earned her Bachelors degree from Idaho State University and her Masters degree from Gonzaga University. She taught history at Colville High School from 1969-2004. Stalp is actively involved in the community and has served on the Jeff Weeman Memorial Board of Directors, Park Board, Jr. Miss Committee and the Diversion Board-Panel. Stalp will replace Cathy LeBret in managing the Colville office. Stalp will also attend regional meetings and assist with casework. “Cathy LeBret deserves a tremendous amount of thanks for her years of service to Eastern Washington,” continued McMorris Rodgers. “For 14 years she has committed her time and energy to helping solve problems for people throughout the northern region. I wish her all the best.” The northern region district office is located at 555 Main Street, Colville, WA 99114. Stalp can be reached at (509) 684-3481.
12.28.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers issued the following statement today after House Democrats unveiled their Fiscal Year 2008 Budget proposal: “The Democrats today unveiled a budget plan that includes the largest tax increase in American history. By allowing the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts to expire, families, couples, seniors and small business will experience at least a $392.5 billion tax increase. “The tax cuts passed in 2001 and 2003 benefit over 2,385,000 Washington state residents. This budget would put into jeopardy the child tax credit, tax deductions for paying college tuition, retirement savings and IRA contributions, the adoption credit, and other tax credits that are specifically designed to reduce the tax burden on students, families, and seniors. “Companies in Eastern Washington, such as Telect, have told me that if it were not for the tax cuts they would have gone out of business. And because of the Research and Development tax credit, Honeywell was able to double their research dollars at their Spokane facility. “Pro-growth policies are reducing the deficit and contributing to record high revenues. By letting people keep more of their own hard-earned money, they are able to reinvest it into the economy which ultimately increases revenue in the federal treasury. “With this budget proposal, the Democrats are failing to acknowledge that we don’t have a revenue problem, we have a spending problem. Their proposal does nothing to slow the growth of entitlement spending, an area where real reform is needed. “Throughout the budget process we must continue to look for ways to make the tax cuts permanent, cut spending and restore fiscal discipline”
12.28.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Continuing to support our veterans, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers last night voted to increase payments to disabled veterans, their families, and their dependants and to establish a new federal program designed to reduce the incidence of suicide among veterans. “We have a responsibility to support and care for our veterans when they return home and provide them with adequate funding and resources to live healthy and productive lives,” said McMorris Rodgers. “We also must take seriously the increasing need to address mental illness and post-traumatic stress disorder. Our local facilities at Walla Walla and Spokane must continue to offer accessible and quality mental health care. Let us never forget that these men and women have given their all to preserve our freedom.” The Veterans Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act (H.R. 1284) increases payments to disabled veterans and their families in the following areas: wartime disability compensation, compensation to surviving spouses and children of veterans who die of service-connected causes, additional compensation for dependants, and clothing allowance The Veterans Suicide Prevention Act (H.R. 327) takes multiple steps to provide for the mental well-being of our veterans. It directs the VA to designate a suicide prevention counselor at each VA medical facility and would provide mandatory training for staff on recognizing risk factors for suicide, proper protocol for crisis situations, and best practices for suicide prevention. In addition, the program would provide for mental health care availability to veterans on a 24-hour basis, through the creation of a toll-free hotline. The program also provides education for veterans and their families, designed to remove the stigma associated with mental illness, encourage veterans to seek treatment and assistance for mental illness, promote skills for coping with mental illness, and help families of veterans understand issues arising from the readjustment of veterans to civilian life. A special emphasis will be placed on providing education and service to veterans of Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Enduring Freedom and their families.
12.28.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris announced she will be holding her Funding Workshop on Monday, April 9th from 9:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m at Centerplace, 2426 North Discovery Place Spokane Valley, WA. The workshop will include information on funding opportunities at the federal, state, and local levels; partnering with like-minded organizations; characteristics of successful grant and funding requests; and avoiding common application mistakes. “It is important that our businesses and community groups have all the resources and information they need in order to capitalize on funding opportunities,” said McMorris Rodgers. “There are federal dollars available for community infrastructure and projects and our goal is to make sure people know what avenues to take so these funds are accessible.” The workshop will include information booths by government agencies, breakout sessions, panel discussions, as well as special presentations by: Ken Thompson, Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation Huong Vu, Paul G. Allen Foundation Dale Strom, City of Spokane Terry Lawhead, Community Trade and Economic Development John DeVaney – USDA-RD, State Director Donna Foxley, ED, Secretary’s Regional Representative James Whitfield and Arlene Patton, DHHS, Regional Directors John Meyers , HUD, Regional Director Krister Engdahl, LD, Regional Director Registration for the workshop is required by March 30th. Visit Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers' website to download a registration form or call (509) 353-2374 for additional information.
12.28.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers released the following statement today after voting against the Iraq Emergency Supplemental bill: “This emergency supplemental bill sends the wrong message to our troops and our enemies. Our troops need to know that America stands behind them and the cause for which they are risking their lives. What we need is a plan for victory in Iraq. Establishing arbitrary timetables, restricting funding, and micromanaging the war is not a plan for victory. This bill jeopardizes the ability of our troops to do their job, while simultaneously emboldening the enemy. “Billions of dollars in funding for projects unrelated to the war have found their way into this bill, one of which is funding for Secure Rural Schools. While I fully support and have fought for an extension of rural county payments, I do not believe this bill is the vehicle to restore funding to this crucial program. The President plans to veto this bill, which means we must find a different way to see that rural county payments are extended.”
12.28.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers is an original co-sponsor of legislation to help ensure an abundant and affordable supply of fruits, vegetables, tree nuts and other specialty crops in order to promote healthy eating, and also enhance the competitiveness of our agricultural sector. “Our farmers in Eastern Washington play an important role in providing us with a safe and healthy food supply,” said McMorris Rodgers. “We must to encourage healthy living, part of which includes eating healthier foods. This legislation, along with the 2007 Farm Bill, provides a unique opportunity to link sound nutritional guidelines to changes in agricultural policy. Expanding opportunities to promote and export specialty crops will help grow our billion dollar agriculture industry.” Washington state’s agricultural diversity, with over 300 food, feed and seed crops, is second only to California. Washington ranks first in the nation in its production of several specialty crops such as apples, pears, sweet cherries, carrots, and red raspberries. H.R. 1600, the Equitable Agriculture Today for a Healthy American Act (EAT Healthy Act) will create new export opportunities for agriculture producers by expanding the Technical Assistance for Specialty Crops Program (TASC), the Market Access Program (MAP), and by raising the profile of specialty crops within USDA and other key federal agencies. TASC has been critical in helping growers eliminate pests and diseases that are keeping specialty crops out of foreign markets. MAP has been successful in helping Eastern Washington farmers finance promotional activities for their agriculture products.
12.28.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Members of three Eastern Washington irrigation districts personally visited congressional offices in Washington, D.C. today to support homeland security cost legislation introduced by Reps. Grace Napolitano (D-CA) and Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA). Both legislators are the top ranking party members of the influential House Water and Power Subcommittee. The legislation, H.R. 1662, aims to protect Grand Coulee Dam and other federal reservoirs from terrorist attacks. It also limits the homeland security costs that could be imposed on the area’s water and power consumers. The Bureau of Reclamation, the federal agency which manages Grand Coulee and other federal dams, has come under fire for cost uncertainty related to homeland security expenses. “No one disagrees with the need to protect Grand Coulee Dam from terrorists, but those costs cannot be solely balanced on the backs of our water and power consumers, especially when these facilities are National treasures that benefit the entire American public,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Our electricity rates have increased substantially over the last decade. The last thing our consumers need is yet another excuse for rate increases.” Dick Erickson, the Secretary-Manager of the East Columbia Basin Irrigation District in Othello, Washington, praised McMorris Rodgers and her colleagues for introducing the measure, saying that the bill recognizes “homeland security costs should be borne by all Americans and not just be the responsibility of irrigation and power ratepayers.” Representatives from the Quincy and South Columbia Basin Irrigation Districts also voiced their support for the bipartisan measure in meetings with congressional offices. The legislation requires that 15 percent of all Bureau of Reclamation homeland security costs be paid by the agency’s water and power customers and mandates an annual report and five year federal spending plan to bring about more transparency and cost certainty. Over the last five years, federal homeland security costs to water and power consumers have increased substantially. In a recent congressional hearing, the Bush Administration recently was unable to provide a long-term commitment against further increases when questioned by McMorris Rodgers. “The time for this legislation is now,” continued McMorris Rodgers. “Our ratepayers want to pay their fair share to protect our critical infrastructure, but the current program isn’t fair and could lead to dramatic rate increases. I thank eastern Washington’s irrigation leaders and Water and Power Subcommittee Chair Grace Napolitano for their help in supporting this common sense legislation.”
12.28.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers voted against the Democrats' budget today that will raise taxes on Eastern Washington individuals, families, parents, students, seniors, and businesses. The budget also does not include an extension of the state sales tax deduction that provides Washington state residents with an average savings of $550 a year. “This is the largest tax increase in American history and will impact everyone whether you are low-income or wealthy, single or married, young or old,” said McMorris Rodgers. “In Washington state, the average taxpayer will pay $3,065 more a year in taxes. By allowing tax credits to expire, such as marriage penalty relief and the child tax credit, this budget is taking real money out of our pockets. I believe this money can be better spent by the people, rather than giving it to the government to pay for billions in new federal spending.” I will continue to fight to make the state sales tax deduction and the rest of the tax cuts permanent,” continued McMorris Rodgers. “These tax cuts have provided tax relief to over 2,385,000 Washington state residents. We have seen that the tax cuts are responsible for growing the economy and increasing revenue by 12 to 15 percent each year to the federal government. They have also helped local companies, such as Telect, stay in business. The key to balancing the budget is not raising taxes, it is controlling spending.” The Democrats' budget will impact families, businesses and seniors in Eastern Washington. On average: A person in Washington state will pay $3,065 more in taxes, the 12th largest increase in the country. An elderly couple who earns $40,000 will see their taxes nearly triple from $538 to $1489 a year, money that could be used for health care and prescription drugs. A family of four earning $60,000 would see a 61% tax increase from $3,030 to $4,893 a year, money that could be used to pay for food, clothing and school supplies. A single parent with two children would see their tax benefits decline by 67%, receiving of a tax refund of $799 instead of $2414 The child tax credit would be cut in half from $1000 to $500 per child. Couples will experience a tax increase of $859 due to the elimination of marriage penalty relief.
12.28.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers recently sent a letter to Scott Gebhardtsbauer, Director of the Federal VA’s State Cemetery Grants Program, highlighting the need for a veterans’ cemetery in Eastern Washington. In the letter, she encourages him to consider Washington state’s grant application for federal dollars to design and construct the cemetery. “The construction of this cemetery is long overdue and our veterans deserve to have a cemetery that is close to home,” said McMorris Rodgers. “With the closest veterans’ cemetery nearly 300 miles away, it would help fill a need and serve over 200,000 veterans from Eastern Washington and Northern Idaho. I commend the Washington state legislature for passing legislation to establish a veterans’ cemetery in Eastern Washington and will continue to work with them to secure federal funds through the VA grant program.” Click here to read a copy of the letter.
12.28.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers released the following statement today regarding the 9th Circuit Appeals Court ruling on the biological opinion: “I am disappointed by the ruling today that upholds Judge Redden’s decision to overturn the 2004 biological opinion. I’ve said it before and I’ll say it again, this is the wrong decision that ignores the progress we have made on fish recovery. It is deeply concerning that judges are becoming rivermasters who are dictating how we use our rivers systems. We must get these decisions out of the courts and back to the local communities. “Because of Judge Redden’s mandated spill in the summer of 2005, consumers lost nearly $75 million in electricity generation, while saving only 20-200 fish. That is a $3 million fish, paid by ratepayers in the Pacific Northwest. This ruling would allow this spill to happen again. “Some are using this ruling as an opportunity to advocate for the removal of the Snake River Dams. Removing the dams would have a tremendous impact on our region’s environment and economy. Our dams provide over 40 percent of our region’s electricity, provide irrigation that is crucial to our billion dollar agriculture industry, and allow for barges to transport our goods. “We need to work towards a collaborative approach to solve the biological opinion and restore balance to the use of the Columbia and Snake Rivers. I hope we can come to a reasonable solution that helps salmon, keeps our energy rates low, and doesn't call for tearing down our dams. “As the ranking Republican on the Water and Power subcommittee, I will focus on bills that recognize the renewable nature of hydropower and the cost of ESA compliance. I am committed to protecting our Snake River dams and preserving the vital role they play in our region.”
12.27.2008	(Washington, D.C.) As thousands of people in Eastern Washington finish filing their 2006 income taxes, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers recognized Tax Day 2007 as a reminder of the need to make the tax cuts permanent. According to the IRS, the average person this year will get back a larger tax refund than in 2006. However, this tax relief is in jeopardy due to the Democrat’s proposed 2008 budget, which allows all of the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts to expire. “This year, the people of Eastern Washington are once again experiencing the benefits of the tax cuts,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Parents, married couples, students, teachers, seniors and small businesses are all paying less this year. Washington state residents are paying fewer taxes because of the ability to deduct their state sales tax. But if Congress fails to act and chooses to let these tax cuts expire, people across Eastern Washington will see their taxes increase.” The 2001 and 2003 tax cuts have provided tax relief to over 2,385,000 Washington state residents. Yet if these tax cuts were to expire, the average person in Washington state would pay $3,065 more in taxes, the 12th largest increase in the country. “Tax season is also a reminder of how our tax code is too long and complex,” continued McMorris Rodgers. “The federal income tax code should be rewritten in a form that makes sense to the average American so it is easier to file taxes and claim appropriate deductions and tax credits.” That is why McMorris Rodgers co-sponsored the Tax Code Elimination Act which states that the federal tax system should be a simple and fair system that: applies a low rate to all Americans; provides tax relief for working Americans; protects the rights of taxpayers and reduces tax collection abuses; eliminates the bias against savings and investment; promotes economic growth and job creation; and does not penalize marriage or families. McMorris Rodgers has also supported legislation to create a new simpler tax form for seniors, similar to the 1040-EZ. Current IRS rules prohibit individuals who are age 65 or older from using the 1040EZ form when filing their taxes. Instead they are required to use more complicated forms, solely based on their age and not their financial situation. The IRS has estimated that as many as 11 million senior citizens would be able to take advantage of this simplified form in the first year.
12.27.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers today applauded the recent appointments of Sharon Helman as Director and Chris Martin as Associate Director of the Jonathan M. Wainwright Veterans Administration Medical Center in Walla Walla. Helman was appointed last fall and officially began duties in January. Martin is scheduled to begin in the upcoming weeks. “I am pleased to see the VA following through with their commitment to fund a full-time director and associate director,” said McMorris Rodgers. “I welcome both Sharon and Chris to the community and look forward to working with them to ensure that local veterans continue to have access to quality health care. This is a very positive step for the future of this facility.” For the past year, McMorris Rodgers has advocated for a permanent VA Director in Walla Walla. In April of 2006, McMorris Rodgers sent a letter to Veterans Affairs Secretary James Nicholson asking him to find and fund a permanent replacement for the Walla Walla VA director. During his visit the following July, Secretary Nicholson announced funding for a permanent director. McMorris Rodgers met with Helman last month in Washington D.C. to discuss mental health care, a possible nursing home, inpatient care and urgent care at the Walla Walla VA Medical Center.
12.27.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and Congresswoman Lois Capps (D-CA) released the following statement regarding the passing of Congresswoman Juanita Millender-McDonald: “On behalf of the Congressional Caucus for Women’s Issues, we would like to extend our condolences to the family, friends, and constituents of Congresswoman Juanita Millender-McDonald. “Congresswoman Millender-McDonald served in the Congress with distinction, working with passion and dedication for the benefit of her community and her country. This talented public servant was a champion for several issues including fighting HIV/AIDS, improving women’s health, encouraging women in business, protecting voting rights, and stopping the genocide in Darfur. “Beyond her activism on a diverse body of issues, Congresswoman Millender-McDonald was a trail blazer. She became the first African American woman in history to chair a committee in Congress, the House Administration Committee. She was also a Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus for Women’s Issues, serving with Congresswoman Judy Biggert in the 107th Congress. “All of us will miss our colleague and our thoughts and prayers are with her family during this difficult time.”
12.27.2008	(Washington, D.C.) U.S. Reps. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-Wash.) and Adam Smith (D-Wash.) today introduced the Medicaid Access Project through Information Technology (MAP IT) to improve health care delivery and lower costs. The bill (H.R. 2043) promotes the modernization of health record systems through health information technology to prevent medical errors and to increase instant access to medical information for patients and doctors. Specifically, MAP IT will allow for the creation of a demonstration project to provide a more modern, technology-based system for managing chronic disease for Medicaid recipients. “We are all worried about the rising costs of health care and now is the time to focus our efforts on using innovative technology to help meet our health care needs,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Health information technology has the potential to revolutionize the way health care is delivered and received. This pilot project will help reduce costs within Medicaid, empower patients with the necessary tools to manage their disease, and improve quality of care by reducing errors.” “Our out-of-date health record system drives up costs,” said Smith. “Under the current paper-based system, doctors and patients lack instant access to medical information, which leads to medical errors and inefficiency. Our pilot project would use efficient, updated technology to improve care quality for Medicaid patients and to decrease costs to states and the federal government.” The project will give chronic disease patients and caregivers access to their medical records and to information about their disease. Patients will be able to directly communicate with health educators and will be provided access to their Personal Health Record, allowing them to record and track their health information. Physicians and other caregivers will have access to updated treatment and status information for chronic disease patients through a virtual case management tool. Without changes to our health care system, analysts predict Medicaid will bankrupt every state in as little as twenty years. By providing online access for managing chronic disease, states can significantly reduce Medicaid costs. An August 2005 study by the Institute for Public Policy and Economic Analysis at Eastern Washington University found that every dollar spent on technology-enabled disease management program saves up to ten dollars in medical and non-medical expenditures. In addition to cost-savings, the use of Health IT ensures overall health care delivery is safe and more comprehensive. According to the Institute of Medicine, at least 1.5 million Americas are sickened, injured or killed each year by errors in prescribing, dispensing or taking medications. By allowing providers to access real-time data, doctors can treat patients with the most recent advancements in medicine and according to the best practices in medicine. Under the bill proposed by Smith and McMorris Rodgers, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services will select at least four proposals to perform the demonstration projects from those submitted by states. The demonstrations would last for two years followed by an evaluation to determine the resulting cost savings.
12.27.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers and husband Brian Rodgers yesterday welcomed the arrival of their son Cole McMorris Rodgers. He was born at 3:14 a.m. on April 29, 2007 at Bethesda Naval Hospital. “Brian and I are overjoyed by the birth of our son,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Although he arrived early, both the baby and I are doing well and recovering at the hospital. We look forward to soon being able to bring our son home.” Cole was born four weeks premature. He weighed five pounds nine ounces and is currently in the neonatal intensive care unit to address minor complications.
12.27.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers released the following statement today regarding the veto override: “With the failed vote to override the President’s veto of the Iraq Emergency Supplemental bill, it is my hope that we can finally stop playing politics and get to work in providing our troops with the funding they need. It is time for Democrats, Republicans and the President to work together on a bill to ensure our men and women on the ground have all the resources necessary to do the job we have asked of them. We need a bill that does not compromise our troops or the security of our nation by establishing arbitrary timetables for withdrawal and defeat. “Let us never forget that the men and women who serve in our military are real people, with real families who are committed to sacrificing it all for the needs of our country. We have an obligation to provide them with both the resources and support they need to achieve success.”
12.27.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers recently cosponsored the bipartisan Endangered Salmon Predation Prevention Act, which authorizes the lethal removal of aggressive sea lions that are preying on endangered Columbia River salmon at the Bonneville Dam. “We must prevent these sea lions from eating and injuring the endangered salmon that we are spending millions of dollars to protect,” said McMorris Rodgers. “After many failed attempts to deter the sea lions, this bill is a necessary step in order to protect the salmon.” Under the Marine Mammal Protection Act, it can take three to five years for wildlife managers to get permission from the federal government to remove aggressive sea lions. The Endangered Salmon Predation Prevention Act would create a temporary expedited process to obtain permits for the lethal removal of a limited number of California sea lions preying on salmon and steelhead in the Columbia River. The streamlined process could be used in cases where non-lethal methods to discourage sea lion predation have been ineffective. In recent years, over 1,000 California sea lions have entered the lower 205 miles of the Columbia River during the peak spring salmon run. It is estimated sea lions are taking 3 to 4 percent of spring Chinook salmon runs, up to 4,000 salmon, injuring thousands more.
12.27.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Representatives Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) and Ron Kind (D-WI) today introduced H.R. 2159 The Rural Health Services Preservation Act of 2007. This legislation supports Critical Access Hospitals in rural areas by ensuring that they receive proper reimbursement for care provided to patients enrolled in the Medicare Advantage (MA) program. “There are 18 Critical Access Hospitals throughout Eastern Washington that provide vital health care services to people living in rural communities,” said McMorris Rodgers. “These rural hospitals have a higher percentage of Medicare patients and will be unable to continue to provide access to health care if they do not receive cost-based reimbursement. This bill will help ensure rural hospitals are reimbursed for care provided to seniors and prevent higher out-of-pocket costs for patients.” "From life-threatening emergencies to preventive care, Critical Access Hospitals are often the sole health care provider to rural residents," said Kind, member of the House Ways and Means Health Subcommittee, which has jurisdiction over Medicare. "We must ensure that they can continue to provide these vital services to rural communities, and this bill will prevent Critical Access Hospitals from being short-changed by Medicare Advantage plans." To account for unique challenges Critical Access Hospitals face as rural providers, these facilities are reimbursed by Medicare at 101 percent of cost for providing care to seniors. However, many Critical Access Hospitals do not receive cost-based reimbursement for providing care to seniors in the MA program. MA Plans are health plan options that are part of the Medicare program and often allow beneficiaries to receive additional benefits at lower premiums. To correct this imbalance, the Rural Health Services Preservation Act would ensure that Critical Access Hospitals are reimbursed at the same levels by MA plans as they receive under Medicare. MA plans would be required to reimburse Critical Access Hospitals at either 101 percent of cost plus contract-end cost reconciliation, or at 103 percent of cost. This bill is supported by the American Hospital Association, the National Rural Health Association and the Washington State Hospital Association.
12.27.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers today announced that the House Armed Services Committee passed the Fiscal Year 2008 National Defense Authorization Act which includes specific language to protect and fund the 36th Rescue Flight Helicopters at Fairchild Air Force Base. McMorris Rodgers, a member of the House Armed Services Committee, visited the unit in April and has been a vocal advocate for the helicopters remaining at Fairchild. “I am pleased that my colleagues on the House Armed Services Committee have recognized the critical role of these helicopters and are joining with me to protect them,” said McMorris Rodgers. “These helicopters are necessary in order to train airmen at the Survival School and are the only helicopters in the region with unique search and rescue capabilities. This is the first step in the legislative process to ensure the helicopters receive the necessary funds to remain at Fairchild.” Title III, Section 348 of the National Defense Authorization Act states that “The Secretary of the Defense shall ensure that no action is taken to deactivate the Air Force unit known as the 36th Rescue Flight that is assigned to Fairchild Air Force Base in Spokane, Washington, or to reassign or reorganize any of the search and rescue capabilities of that unit.” This bill also calls for the restoration of approximately $4 million in funding. The 36th Rescue Flight has received overwhelming support from the Northwest Congressional Delegation and the Spokane community. More than 500 letters from groups and individuals in Eastern Washington were sent earlier this year to the Chairman and Ranking Member of the House Armed Services Community emphasizing the important role of the helicopters within the community. “As a region we took a fifty person delegation to Washington DC in April to advocate for, among other projects and issues, the survival helicopters,” said Rich Hadley, CEO/President, Greater Spokane Incorporated. “We continue to advocate for the survival helicopter mission as it is a critical mission of the Fairchild Air Force Base 36th Rescue Flight and Survival School.” The bill also authorized $6.2 million in funding for the Physiological Training Facility at Fairchild. The funding will allow for the construction of a new 9,957 square foot facility to house the Physiological Training Unit, which will include a hypobaric altitude chamber, life support area, instructor offices and classrooms for academic training. The unit is currently housed in a converted 1943 warehouse that has inadequate ventilation, utility, electrical and plumbing systems. The National Defense Authorization Act authorizes $504 billion in budget authority for the Department of Defense (DoD) and the national security programs of the Department of Energy. Additionally, the legislation authorizes $142 billion in supplemental funding to support current operations in Iraq, Afghanistan and elsewhere in the Global War on Terrorism. Additional highlights of the bill include: A 3.5% pay raise for all members of the armed forces in 2008 and guaranteed pay raises in 2009, 2010 and 2011 to reduce the military-civilian pay disparity. Additional funding for force protection needs in support of Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom, including $4.1 billion for state-of-the-art Mine Resistant Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicles. Additional increases of 13,000 Army and 9,000 Marine Corps active duty personnel to sustain our required missions. An additional $1 billion for National Guard equipment. Extends the prohibition the committee enacted last year on increases to TRICARE Prime and TRICARE Standard. Extends the prohibition the committee enacted last year on retail pharmacy cost share increases. Provides $250 million to address training shortfalls throughout the services and adds $165 million for depot maintenance.
12.27.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers released the following statement today in recognition of Endangered Species Day: “May 18, 2007 is Endangered Species Day and an opportunity to focus on steps that can be taken to prevent extinction of valuable wildlife. It is also an opportunity to re-examine the Endangered Species Act (ESA) that has become a broken law in need of reform. “The Endangered Species Act is an important piece of legislation that in Eastern Washington dictates how we use our land, how we transport our good to market, and even how much our electricity bills cost each month. From the pygmy rabbit to endangered salmon, the ESA has impacted our way of life in the Pacific Northwest. “The ESA has gone unchanged for over 30 years. During that time we have been unable to make any common sense reforms to account for improvements in technology and a better understanding of the issues. It has become a source of conflict between federal regulators and communities and local landowners. Now is the time to move away from burdensome regulations, lawsuits and punitive settlements to a more balanced and collaborative approach to land use. “We all share the goal of protecting our threatened or endangered species, however it is clear this law is in need of change. Originally adopted under the best intentions, ESA has failed to achieve its purpose of recovering endangered species to healthy and sustainable populations. Less than 1 percent has recovered in the Act’s history. Implementing recovery plans are often low priority and not properly monitored. Agencies are unaccountable for the effectiveness of the recovery efforts. Of the 35 domestic species delisted, 9 were removed due to extinction and 15 were removed as data errors. The remaining 11 species have been claimed as “recovered.” The primary factor in the recovery of several of these species was the ban on DDT, which was unrelated to and predated the Endangered Species Act. “That is why I will continue to support ESA reform that uses scientific standards, focuses on species recovery, provide incentives, and compensate private property owners for the lost use of land. We have created an adversarial relationship with the people who are most critical to the goal of saving endangered species: America’s farmers, ranchers and private property owners. 90 percent of endangered species have habitat on private land. We must change our disincentives into real incentives so that we can begin our true goal of recovering species.”
12.27.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers today reintroduced the Endangered Species Transparency Act of 2007 (H.R. 2530). The bill requires Power Marketing Administrations, including the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA), to estimate and report the direct and indirect costs associated with the Endangered Species Act (ESA) to each wholesale power customer on a monthly billing basis. “In the Pacific Northwest, ESA costs related to endangered salmon have risen considerably over the last several years due to federal court-mandates and other compliance programs,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Many consumers do not know how much they pay for fish protection, why they pay, or whether they’re paying for them at all. At a time when energy costs are increasing, consumers have a right to know where their money is being spent. Once consumers receive access to this information, they can make informed decisions on whether their money is being spent appropriately and effectively.” A court-mandated spill in 2004 helped make the Bonneville Power Administration the federal agency with the highest ESA compliance costs in the nation. According to the Washington Post, Judge Redden’s 2004 summer spill amounted to spending $3.85 million for each protected Chinook salmon. BPA estimates that they have spent approximately $500 million annually on ESA-related compliance costs in recent years. By law, the agency passes on all of these costs to its wholesale customers, who in turn forward the costs on to the retail electricity consumer. A May 2005 poll found that 70 percent of respondents either didn’t know how much they paid for salmon recovery or believe that less than 5 percent of their monthly bills go to salmon recovery. Yet, in 2004, the ESA components of BPA’s fish and wildlife program comprised approximately 23 percent of the agency’s wholesale rates. Original co-sponsors of the bill include Walter Jones (NC), Barbara Cubin (WY), Devin Nunes (CA), Doc Hastings (WA), Louie Gohmert (TX), Ken Calvert (CA), Henry Brown (SC), Greg Walden (OR), Dennis Rehberg (MT), Rick Renzi (AZ), Steve Pearce (NM), and Bill Sali (ID).
12.27.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers today applauded the passage of H.R. 1501 – the National STEM Scholarship Database Act. McMorris Rodgers is a member of the Education and Labor Committee and an original cosponsor of this legislation that creates a searchable online database of financial assistance for the study of science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM). “If our country is to stay competitive, we need home grown engineers, scientists and mathematicians,” said McMorris Rodgers. “I consistently hear from local companies in Eastern Washington about the need for a trained workforce and this process must start at the education level. The online database will serve as a one-stop shop for students with financial aid inquires. The goal is to encourage students to pursue higher education degrees in science, technology, engineering and math by helping them meet the rising costs of college tuition.” The legislation directs the Secretary of Education to establish an online database where students pursing undergraduate or graduate degrees in STEM fields can search for scholarships, fellowships, and other programs of financial assistance available from public and private sources. The database will include specific information on programs targeted to individuals of a particular gender, ethnicity, or other demographic group; a link to the website of each program listed in the database; and general information on how to contact the sponsor of a financing program.
12.27.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers offered an amendment to officially recognize hydropower as a renewable energy resource for the purpose of studying barriers to increased renewable electricity transmission access to the grid during the House Natural Resources Committee markup of H.R. 2337, the Energy Policy Reform and Revitalization Act of 2007. The amendment passed today by a vote of 44 to 0. “Hydropower is a clean, reliable, and affordable renewable energy source that serves as a key component in our national environmental and energy policy objectives. It is about time Congress recognized that hydropower contributes to renewable electricity transmissions," said McMorris Rodgers. "There are currently growing concerns about the impacts of climate change, and we need to find energy sources that will help curb greenhouse gas emissions without stifling our economy. Hydropower does just that and our dams in the Pacific Northwest produce one of the cleanest forms of electricity generation. I’m glad my colleagues recognized on a bipartisan basis that hydropower deserves to be considered as a renewable energy resource in this study.” Hydropower is a non-polluting form of electricity generation. The National Hydropower Association estimates that more than 160 million tons of carbon dioxide emissions were avoided in the United States in 2004 because of hydropower generation in the United States. "The Northwest Public Power Association applauds Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers for her amendment today to recognize hydropower as a renewable resource," said Will Lutgen, Jr. the Association's Executive Director. “With increased attention to making national climate change policy, it is important that Congress treat hydropower as the emissions-free, renewable resource that it is." Lutgen testified before the House Natural Resources Committee earlier this year on why hydropower is a renewably energy. Hydropower accounts for nearly 80 percent of the nation’s total renewable electricity generation, making it the leading renewable energy source of power for our cities and communities. In the Pacific Northwest, dams on the Columbia and Snake rivers play a vital role in keeping the region’s electricity costs low. It would take three nuclear, six coal-fired, or 14 gas-fired power plants to provide the peaking capacity of the four Snake River dams. In addition, dams are the crucial underpinning in providing additional renewable energy. For example, when the wind does not blow due to its intermittent nature, hydropower can step in almost instantly to provide backup power generation to provide much needed electricity.
12.27.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers sent a letter today to the State Department requesting a plan of action to address the long processing times for passport applications. This year McMorris Rodgers has helped over 80 Eastern Washington individuals and families with passport delays. “As the summer travel season gets underway, there are numerous people in Eastern Washington in need of passports for trips and vacations abroad,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Unfortunately many of these people are experiencing long delays in obtaining their passports, often having to cancel or postpone their trips. While I recognize and appreciate the new measures put in place in order to secure our borders and ensure our national security, we must have an efficient system for applicants to receive their passports in a timely manner. I was pleased to see steps taken by the State Department this past week to correct this problem and hope they will continue to address ongoing concerns. I encourage anyone expecting to travel outside of the United States this year to fill out the passport application as soon as possible to prevent delays and complications.” A new policy took effect at the beginning of the year that required passports for U.S. citizens flying to Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, and Bermuda. This new requirement increased the demand for passports nationwide, creating lengthy processing times for passport applications. To address this backlog, the U.S. State Department recently announced that those traveling to Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean or Bermuda will be allowed to depart and enter the United States through September 30th with a government issued photo identification and Department of State official proof of application for a passport. The State Department also announced that those who still had to wait for passports, despite paying an extra $60 to expedite the process, will be eligible for a refund. U.S. citizens with pending passport applications can obtain proof of application at: http://travel.state.gov or call the National Passport Information Center at 1-877-487-2778 with additional questions. Click here to read the letter McMorris Rodgers sent to the State Department.
12.27.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers recently received the “Champion of the Merit Shop” award from Associated Builders and Contractors (ABC) for her legislative work to promote free enterprise, tax cuts and reduced regulations for businesses. McMorris Rodgers received an 89 percent score from ABC for votes taken during the 109th Congress. “It is an honor to be recognized by Associated Builders and Contractors for my work to ensure our local companies stay competitive,” said McMorris Rodgers. “As a member of the Education and Labor Committee, I understand that in order for our small businesses in Eastern Washington to succeed they need access to capital, lower taxes, a skilled workforce and open markets for trade.” ABC specifically recognized McMorris Rodgers for her support of permanently repealing the Death Tax, passing tax relief extension, making reforms to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) to ensure that enforcement efforts are fair for small businesses, and approving Association Health Plans, which allow small businesses to band together to purchase health insurance plans outside of state boundaries. “It is an honor to recognize Rep. McMorris Rodgers for her voting record on issues we feel to be the most significant to the commercial and industrial construction industry,” said Dave Meyer, 2007 ABC national chairman. “This award gives us an opportunity to positively acknowledge lawmakers who consistently support the merit shop philosophy.” The “Champion of the Merit Shop” award reflects ABC’s commitment to fair competition and free enterprise. ABC tracks the voting records of all legislators on select legislation as indicative of their support for, or opposition to, issues that are critical to the merit shop and the commercial and industrial construction industry. Associated Builders and Contractors (ABC) is a national association representing more than 24,000 merit shop construction and construction-related firms in 78 chapters across the United States.
12.27.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers announced today that the U.S. Department of Agriculture has appointed Kima Simonson of Deer Park to serve as a Farm Service Agency (FSA) State Committee member in Washington state. “Kima Simonson has been an active leader in the dairy and agriculture industry and understands the issues important to local farmers,” said McMorris Rodgers. “She is extremely qualified for this position and will be instrumental in representing Eastern Washington’s agriculture interests on the state committee.” As an FSA state committee member, Simonson will be responsible for the general direction and supervision of state FSA programs such as farm commodity, credit, conservation, disaster, and loans. She will work with other committee members to keep local farmers informed of agency program activities while resolving appeals and complaints. Kima Lynn Simonson has been co-operator of a family-run dairy farm for nearly three decades. She is active in various dairy organizations that promote dairy products and support the dairy industry. Ms. Simonson serves on the Washington Dairy Products Board and has been a member of the Washington State Dairy Women for 18 years.
12.27.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (WA-05) joined with U.S. Senator Patty Murray (D-WA) and Congressman Rick Larsen (WA-02) to introduce bi-partisan and bi-cameral legislation to provide targeted assistance for Washington state wheat farmers. The Wheat Counter-Cyclical Payments Enhancement Act, (H.R. 2879) introduced and supported by the three legislators, requires the Secretary of Agriculture to determine counter-cyclical payments for wheat by class instead of national averages. With the enactment of the 2002 Farm Bill, the Secretary of Agriculture changed marketing loan rates by class for wheat. Unfortunately, counter-cyclical payments were not restructured, leaving many wheat growers out of the intended safety net. The Wheat Counter-Cyclical Payments Enhancement Act corrects this injustice and ensures fairness for all wheat growers. "Our farm policy must allow our farmers to succeed and unfortunately the current counter-cyclical program is failing our soft white wheat growers in Eastern Washington," said Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers. "We need to enact effective counter-cyclical reform to improve the intended safety net for wheat growers and target assistance to those who need it the most, when they need it the most. I thank my colleagues for working with me on behalf of Eastern Washington wheat growers to correct this imbalance." "Washington state wheat growers have suffered through drought, failed food aid policies and the high cost of fertilizer. They shouldn't be falling through the loopholes of a safety net intended to help them," Senator Murray said. "I am proud to have worked with my delegation colleagues to fix this broken system and give our wheat growers the resources they need to pursue their livelihoods and continue to provide for Washington state and the world." "We need a policy that reflects the realities of the marketplace and ensures that Washington's wheat farmers get the help they need when they need it most," said Congressman Larsen. "This common sense change will create a real safety net to help Washington wheat growers stay in business and keep producing the food our country needs in good times and bad." "We are very excited that this bipartisan legislation is being introduced today. We remain concerned that farmers are not receiving the intended benefits of these safety net programs, and we are pleased that our elected officials are working hard to rectify this problem," said Jim White, President of the Washington Association of Wheat Growers. Senator Maria Cantwell (D-WA) and Representative Doc Hastings (WA-04) are cosponsors of the bill.
12.27.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers voted in favor of an amendment to the House Financial Services appropriations bill to include the words “In God We Trust” on the face of newly minted dollar coins. Congress passed legislation in 2005 to create the dollar coin, but the phrase was etched on the rim of the coins instead of the face, making it difficult to see and read. “On the fourth of July we not only celebrate our independence, but also the history of our great nation,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Therefore it is appropriate and timely that Congress acted now to fix this oversight and include the words ‘In God We Trust’ on the new dollar coins. This phrase has been found on our coins for nearly 150 years and represents the strength and faith of our country.” The phrase “In God We Trust” is attributed to increased religious sentiment during the Civil War and first appeared on the two-cent coin in 1864. In 1956, President Eisenhower signed a Joint Resolution declaring “In God We Trust” the national motto. The words first appeared on paper money the following year.
12.27.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers recently cosponsored legislation to make improvements to health savings accounts (HSAs) that will provide more people with affordable health insurance options. H.R. 2693, Promoting Health for Future Generations Act, will allow adult children to inherit HSA plans from their parents, increase annual contribution limits, and fix restrictions that currently prohibit some veterans and seniors from accessing HSAs. “Health savings accounts provide individuals with affordable health insurance options and give them greater control over their own health care needs,” said McMorris Rodgers. “Part of revolutionizing our health care system is ensuring that the cost of health care is within the reach of individuals and families, while also giving people choices to pick a health care plan that is right for them; HSAs help accomplish both. Millions of people have already chosen to enroll in HSAs and this bill will make important improvements to ensure more people can benefit from this cost-saving option.” The Promoting Health for Future Generations Act will allow parents to leave funds from an HSA to a surviving son or daughter without tax penalty, the same way that spouses are currently able to inherit HSA funds. To encourage further savings, the annual HSA contribution limit will be increased to $5,500 for individual coverage and $11,000 for family coverage. The bill will also help give veterans and seniors access to affordable health care. Under current law, individuals are unable to deposit money into an HSA after they receive care through the VA or Medicare systems. This legislation would allow Medicare eligible seniors and VA beneficiaries to continue to contribute to an HSA. It will also allow seniors age 50 and over to make catch-up contributions of up to $2,000 over the annual contribution limit, and permit HSA funds to be used to purchase coverage under a Medicare supplemental policy.”
12.27.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers was appointed today by House Republican Leader John Boehner to serve as a conferee for the Water Resources Development Act. The U.S. Constitution requires that in order for a bill to be presented to the President for signature, it must pass both the House and Senate in the exact same form. The role of a Conference Committee is to work out differences between the House and Senate version of the bill. McMorris Rodgers will be the Republican representative of the Resources Committee in Conference, making her well positioned to protect water and infrastructure projects important to the Pacific Northwest. “Being selected as a conferee is an important opportunity to ensure the voice of the Pacific Northwest is represented in this conference report,” said McMorris Rodgers. “There are several water projects included in this bill that are crucial to our region, including the Columbia Channel Deepening Project and rebuilding Seattle’s seawall.” “As the ranking member of the Water and Power Subcommittee, McMorris Rodgers will be a vocal advocate for issues important to the Northwest,” said House Republican Leader John Boehner. “I look forward to working with her on both this legislation and other issues to ensure we conserve and develop our water resources.” The Columbia Channel Deepening Project is a major transportation, economic development, and international trade issue for the region. The Columbia River is the United State's largest wheat export system, with 40 percent of all U.S. wheat exports shipped through its ports. The Seattle seawall was damaged in the 2001 Nisqually Earthquake and plays an important role in protecting Seattle’s Waterfront. This bill would require the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers to consider the environmental, economic, and public safety benefits of the seawall. The Water Resources Development Act provides for the development of water resources. It also authorizes the Army Corps of Engineers to construct various projects for improvements to rivers and harbors.
12.27.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers today introduced legislation to keep our children safe from online sexual predators. H.R. 3144, The Internet Sex Offender Prohibition Act of 2007 will impose mandatory penalties for registered sex offenders who knowingly access an Internet website with the intent to communicate with an unsuspecting child. “This year I became a mother, and like every parent, it is important for me to keep my child safe as he grows up and protect him from anyone who would do him harm,” said McMorris Rodgers. “This year I was also introduced to social networking sites like MySpace and Facebook. It is alarming that they are being used by thousands of registered sex offenders as a way to prey on innocent children. We must take steps to prevent sex offenders from accessing these sites before they have an opportunity to harm our children. This bill sends a clear message to sex offenders that if they use these Internet sites to contact children they will go to jail.” The Associated Press reported today that MySpace.com has identified over 29,000 sex offenders with profiles on their site. This is four times the number that was reported by the company two months ago. According the FBI, as many as 50,000 child predators are prowling the Internet, and one in five children between the ages of 10 and 17 will receive a sexual solicitation online during their lifetime. “Nearly 4,200 children in Spokane County were victims of physical abuse, sexual abuse or neglect in 2005,” continued McMorris Rodgers. “We must not only focus on keeping children safe from strangers they meet on the street, but protecting them from strangers they meet online.” "Protection of our children who are accessing the internet is paramount,” said Shane Desgrosellier, President and CEO of Guardien Technologies in Spokane. “Today, new technologies and stronger legislation will significantly broaden and strengthen the front lines to protecting our children while online. This bill introduced by Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers is a significant and necessary step in legislation and together with new technologies we are excited to make significant and proactive steps toward complete online protection without having to rely on software." The Internet Sex Offender Prohibition Act would amend Section 2251 of Title 18 of the U.S. Code to include a mandatory penalty of 5 to 20 years in prison for any individual required to register as a sex offender who knowingly access an Internet website with the intent to communicate with an unsuspecting child under the age of 18.
12.27.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Although supportive of farm policies included in the 2007 Farm Bill, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers today voted against the bill due to the last-minute addition of a $7.5 billion tax increase. McMorris Rodgers remains supportive of funding and policies included in the legislation that are important for Eastern Washington and will continue working to produce a final bill that will help our farmers succeed. “I am committed to working in a bipartisan fashion to help our Eastern Washington farmers and ranchers remain competitive,” said McMorris Rodgers. “However, I am disappointed that a change was made to this legislation that raises taxes. The tax increase will impact over 83,000 manufacturing jobs in Washington state. We shouldn’t have to choose between farmers or manufacturers. This is the first step in a long process to pass new Farm Bill legislation. We must come up with a bipartisan bill important to agriculture and rural communities without raising taxes.” The tax increase violates numerous trade treaties, potentially causing retaliation and hurting Eastern Washington’s agriculture industry that is so trade dependent. In Washington state, 85 percent of wheat is exported, our apples are shipped to all 50 states and over 40 countries, dry peas and lentils are shipped to over 90 countries and we are the largest exporter of french fries. “Last year I traveled to Eastern Washington at the request of Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers and heard from local farmers about their needs and concerns,” said Congressman Bob Goodlatte, Ranking Member on the House Agriculture Committee. “I have appreciated McMorris Rodgers’ work and attention to this Farm Bill. We have worked in a bipartisan fashion throughout this process and had the opportunity to take a bipartisan product of the Committee to the floor, but our work has been undermined by the addition of tax increases. It is a sad day for American agriculture when the Democratic Leadership pits America's farmers and ranchers against America's working class.” McMorris Rodgers has worked closely with Washington wheat growers to fix the counter-cyclical program and provide them with intended safety nets. She recently introduced legislation with Congressman Larsen and Senator Murray to calculate counter-cyclical payments by class instead of the national average of wheat. McMorris Rogers continues to support farm policies included in the 2007 Farm Bill such as: Investments in specialty crops, such as apples, potatoes, red raspberries, and sweet cherries, by expanding research, encouraging consumption of fruits and vegetables, and providing trade assistance and promotion. Rural development programs to assist rural health facilities in the area of health information technology. Renewable energy provisions to continue the Bio-energy Program, which includes incentives for bio-diesel production and waste materials including animal manure, and livestock/food processing waste. Expansion of the USDA Snack Program, which helps schools provide healthy snacks to students during after-school activities.
12.27.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers today voted against H.R. 986, the Eightmile Wild and Scenic River Act, which weakens private property rights. The bill designates 25.3 miles of the Eightmile River as components of the National Wild and Scenic River System. The designation requires a freeze on any physical alteration to the land and allows the National Park Service to prohibit projects on federal land and tighten zoning restrictions on private land. “Private ownership of property is a fundamental constitutional right and it is deeply concerning to see this right trampled on by politicians and judges in Washington D.C.,” said McMorris Rodgers. “People should be confident in knowing that the government will not come and seize their property or regulate its use. This legislation is a step in the wrong and is reminiscent of the Supreme Court’s misguided decision in Kelo v. New London.” In 2005, the Supreme Court ruled in Kelo v. New London that government entities had the ability to take any American citizen’s private property, at any time, for virtually any reason that could be defended as a “public use.” The Fifth Amendment holds that private property shall not be taken by the government for public use without just compensation. However, the Eightmile Wild and Scenic River Act allows private property to be condemned or restricted at will – with or without just compensation. This designation as a National Wild and Scenic River System may result in strict regulations and will impact landowners who may have inadequate knowledge of this project and the land use restrictions. The management plan proposes regulations that amount to down zoning. This will have undue impacts on property values of owners who have not consented to or been informed about this designation. Some property owners along the river have preserved their land with the intention of selling or conducting further construction in order to use the proceeds for retirement. Such goals will be destroyed by this legislation. Last Congress, McMorris cosponsored the Private Property Right Protection Act to enhance the penalty for states and localities that abuse their eminent domain power by denying them all federal economic development funds for a period of two years.
12.27.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers today introduced the Strengthening America’s Innovation and Competitiveness Act (H.R. 3242). This legislation focuses on ways to improve education in the fields of math, science and foreign language and creates incentives for students to enter the fields of science of technology. “If our country is to stay competitive in the global economy, then we need home grown engineers, scientists and mathematicians,” said Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers. “High-tech companies throughout Washington state do not currently have access to enough workers to fill open positions. With countries such as China and South Korea graduating more students than the United States in these high need fields, our competitive advantage is being put at risk. Creating a skilled workforce must start at the educational level. By making math and science exciting to students beginning in elementary school, and ensuring they receive the best instruction throughout high school, we will hopefully see more students choosing to seek careers in these fields.” “This bill supports students, teachers and schools by increasing the knowledge base in math and science instruction and making it easier for schools to find qualified teachers in these subject areas,” said Dr. Becky Cooke, former teacher and principal in the Mead School District. “This is especially important for rural schools in Eastern Washington that have a more difficult time recruiting teachers. I hope this bill will help ensure that students in impoverished or isolated areas end up with the same access to opportunities as everyone else. I thank Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers for working closely with educators and administrators in Eastern Washington to craft legislation that helps our students and teachers succeed.” “Foreign competition in the fields of math and science is leaving America at a competitive disadvantage,” said Rep. Howard P. “Buck” McKeon (R-CA), Ranking Member on the House Education and Labor Committee. “While the U.S. still leads the world in scientific and technological innovation, this nation must continue to be flexible to meet the new realities of today and the daunting challenges of tomorrow. Mrs. McMorris Rodgers’ legislation will help us meet those challenges, and I thank her for her continued leadership on this issue.” Highlights of the bill include: Adjunct Teacher Corps Authorizes a program to recruit and train highly qualified individuals who are experts in their fields to serve as adjunct teachers in math, science or critical foreign languages for schools that are experiencing a shortage of teachers in these fields. For example, this bill would allow a well-qualified individual such as Bill Gates to teach computer science courses to high school students. Advanced Placement (AP) Program Increases the number of students enrolled in AP classes and increases the number of teachers who are qualified to teach AP courses in math, sciences and critical foreign languages. It provides funds to give salary increases or bonuses to teachers who become AP qualified or whose students successfully pass AP exams in these high need courses. Math Now Creates a competitive grant program to strengthen elementary and middle school children’s math success by providing schools resources in the best available evidence on mathematics instruction – with the goal of ensuring that all students reach challenging grade level achievement standards. Honors Scholarship Program Awards full scholarships through the Byrd Scholarship program for graduate and post graduate students studying math, science, engineering or computer sciences with the agreement that they will work in that field for five years after graduation. Critical Foreign Languages Provides grants to higher education institutions in partnership with local education agencies to establish programs of study in critical need foreign languages that help students achieve proficiency in those languages. Women in STEM Fields Includes a sense of Congress that women are playing an increasingly important role in key sectors of the economy and must have access to opportunities to excel in math, science and technology.
12.27.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers was disappointed today to vote against the Children’s Health Insurance and Medicare Protection Act (CHAMP), which will have a negative impact on Eastern Washington health Care. The bill will force two hospitals in Okanagan County to close their doors to patients and will cause over 10,000 seniors in Eastern Washington to loose the choice and benefits available with their current health insurance plan. “I wholeheartedly support renewing this program and providing low-income children with health insurance,” said McMorris Rodgers. “I also support access to health care for seniors and don’t believe it should have to be a choice of supporting one over the other. But what concerns we most about this bill, is that it would force the hospitals in Omak and Tonasket to close. If these hospitals shut down, people in Okanogan County, both young and old, will be left without access to health care. Expanded health insurance for children is important, but not on the back of seniors and our rural hospitals.” North Valley Hospital in Tonasket and Mid-Valley Hospital in Omak are part of The Wenatchee Valley Medical Center hospital system. It is a 100 percent physician-owned and directed hospital system. Section 651 of the CHAMP Act would prohibit hospitals from being more than 40 percent physician-owned. “Should Section 651 be enacted into law as written, we foresee the likely closure of the Wenatchee Valley Medical Center and our outlying facilities in the next few years,” said CEO David Weber, MD in a letter. “We have concluded that selling 60% of our hospital as required by Section 651, and preventing Wenatchee Valley Medical Center from growing beyond it’s current bed size, is non-sustainable, a death-knell.” North Valley Hospital and Mid-Valley Hospital serve over 40,000 residents in Okanogan County. If these hospitals shut down, people in Okanogan County would have to travel to Ferry County Hospital in Republic, which would become the next closest hospital. That is why McMorris Rodgers and Congressman Doc Hastings worked to remove this provision from the bill. In addition, the CHAMP Act includes $193 billion in cuts to seniors’ Medicare benefits. Over 157,000 seniors in Washington state and over 10,000 seniors in Eastern Washington would loose their health care provided by Medicare Advantage Plans. These seniors will now be forced to pay for prescription drugs out-of-pocket, face higher premiums, and have a hard time finding a primary care physician because many don’t accept new traditional Medicare patients. This bill includes cuts to inpatient care, inpatient rehabilitation services, oxygen services, skilled nursing facilities and home health care services “I am sick to hear that I may loose my current Medicare Advantage Plan,” said Barbara Fine, a 75 year old senior from Walla Walla. “Without this plan I would not be able to have health insurance because it would be too expensive; I can’t afford higher premiums. My current plan has offered me excellent health insurance at a reasonable cost. I have been encouraging all my friends to sign up for this plan and I don’t know what I would do without it.” McMorris Rodgers voted in favor of a Republican alternative bill that provides health care to low-income children, protects seniors’ health care, removes the provision that would force the two hospitals in Okanagan County to close, and contains a full “fix” for Washington state to allow them to receive all of the enhanced federal funds for children.
12.27.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris announced she will be holding a Seniors Workshop on Wednesday, August 8th from 9:00-11:30 at Centerplace, 2426 North Discovery Place Spokane Valley, WA. The workshop will allow seniors to ask questions and receive information on topics including Social Security, Medicare Part D, health care and financial planning. “Seniors are the fastest growing age group in the country and I am committed to supporting their specific needs including health care, financial services and long-term care,” said McMorris Rodgers. “This workshop is an opportunity for seniors to hear from experts and receive information on local services available to them.” The workshop will include presentations by: Aging and Long Term Care of Eastern Washington Washington State Certified Public Accounts on “Your home as a source of income in retirement" and "Life Insurance and Estate Planning” Avista Utilities on energy assistance programs for seniors Statewide Health Insurance Benefits Advisors will provide information on Medicare Social Security Administration For more information contact Allison Cole at (509) 353-2374.
12.27.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers will hold a Veterans and Military Resources Fair on Saturday, August 25th from 10:00 am – 2:00 pm at the Washington State University Riverpoint Campus located at 412 E. Spokane Falls Blvd. The fair will feature booths and presentations from a variety of organizations on topics including benefits, medical records, health care services, financial assistance for returning veterans and resume building. Organizations participating in the fair include Washington Department of Veterans Affairs, Spokane VA Medical Hospital, Seattle VA Benefits Office, Spokane County Veterans Services, Global Credit Union, Northwest Justice Project, Worksource Spokane, Army National Guard, Fairchild Air Force Base, Washington Society of Certified Public Accountants, and Willamette National Cemetery. McMorris Rodgers will also present five individuals with the first annual ‘Eastern Washington Outstanding Military Spouse Award.’ This award is designed to recognize the work and support of these spouses both on the base and within the community. This year’s award recipients include: Kristina Kenagy She has volunteered many hours as Ombudsman for the Navy Operational Support Center in Spokane. She organizes numerous military support functions including the supplying, packaging and mailing of care packages to our locally deployed troops. Susan Delano She is actively involved with the Wishing Star Foundation and organized a fundraiser that raised over $20,000 to help improve the quality of life for children with life threatening diseases. Melinda Bray As a 20-year military spouse, she consistently assists in numerous unit morale and welfare activities. She donates food and supplies for local initiatives to feed and clothe the less fortunate and cooks meals for military members and family during times of crisis or need. She also volunteers with the relocation services for military personnel, ensuring families are educated and informed of temporary loaner necessities available on-base. Brandi Walmsley She is a Phoenix Spouse for the 93rd Air Refueling Squadron. While deployed service members are gone, she keeps the spouses aware of base happenings, childcare opportunities and squadron functions. She is so depended upon in the squadron that the 93rd ARS Commander requested that she remain the Phoenix Spouse even after her husband moved to another unit on base. David Allen He is actively involved as a Phoenix Spouse, a board member of the Officer’s Spouse, and serves as the 92nd Medical Group Family Network Director. He has solicited over 25 organizations for donations to the Officer Spouse Club annual silent auction and has donated his time, money, and professional skills to the annual auction to help raise over $14,000 for scholarships and charity projects. In the community he has volunteered 92 hours as a teachers aide at a local elementary school, 50 hours as Before-School Early Reading program monitor and tutored second graders 4 hours per week in math and reading skills. For more information on the Veterans and Military Resources Fair contact Aimee Henneke at 509-353-2374.
12.27.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers recently made another visit to Fairchild Air Force Base to meet with Fairchild leadership and 38 Airmen preparing to deploy to countries around the world. “The men and women at Fairchild Air Force Base are serving critical missions in the Global War on Terror,” said McMorris Rodgers. “It is always an honor to see these men and women off when they deploy and I look forward to the day when I can welcome them home. I want to thank them and their families for their service, sacrifice and dedication to our country.” While at Fairchild, McMorris Rodgers also discussed the relationship between the 141st Air Refueling Wing of the Washington State Air National Guard and the 92nd Air Refueling Wing of the U.S. Air Force. The 2005 Base Realignment and Closure Commission mandated that the two units “associate” after the KC-135s assigned to the 141st were moved to Sioux Falls, Iowa. “During this visit I sat down with Col. Bulkley, commander of the 141st, and Col. Sharpy, base commander of Fairchild and the 92nd,”continued McMorris Rodgers. “I was encouraged by the many examples of teamwork, but there still is a lot that needs to be worked out. It is important that all the stakeholders—the leadership of the Washington National Guard, the State and the leadership of the Air Force—come to the table willing to find a solution that allows us to move forward. This is especially important as we look down the road to the KC-X and what that means to our Eastern Washington community. I will continue to do everything I can to help the two sides facilitate an agreement.”
12.27.2008	(Washington, DC) — Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers released the following statement today regarding the passing of former Congresswoman Jennifer Dunn: “Jennifer Dunn devoted her life to public service and to her family. She served Washington state with great honor and distinction and I have been honored to call her a friend and mentor. “I first met Jennifer when she was the Chair of the Washington State Republican party. Ronald Reagan was her inspiration and she worked tirelessly to transform the Republican Party in our state – promoting the values we all hold dear – opportunity, freedom, and prosperity. “In Congress, she always put Washington state and the people she represented first. As a single mother raising two boys, she understood the need for economic security and was a champion for lowering taxes so families could keep more of their hard earned money. She was an advocate for small business, a supporter of free trade and a champion for reforming our tax code. “As a woman she had many firsts – the first woman to run the Washington State Republican Party, the first freshman woman to win a place in the House Republican leadership team and the first Republican woman to run for Majority Leader of the House of Representatives. She was only the fifth woman to serve on the Ways and Means Committee. She was an inspiration to me as well as women throughout our state and around the country. “I will always remember Jennifer for her continual support, guidance and friendship. My condolences and prayers are with her family and for the many people she touched throughout her life.”
12.27.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers released the following statement today regarding the testimony by General David Petraeus and Ambassador Ryan Crocker on Iraq: “General Patraeus and Ambassador Crocker gave a fair and honest assessment today of the current situation in Iraq. While certain military objectives have been met and progress made, they also point out that success has been uneven and will be neither quick nor easy. “I am pleased that General Patraeus recognizes the desire we all have to bring our troops home. The key is to be able to do this from a position of strength and success, not failure. Rapidly withdrawing our troops at this point would have devastating consequences and make a difficult situation worse. It would create a humanitarian crisis, embolden Al-Qaeda and terrorists groups and create instability throughout the Middle East. “We must continue to build upon what we have achieved in Iraq. It is especially encouraging to hear progress being made at the local level, with tribal leaders rejecting Al-Qaeda. Having the participation and support of local citizens will be critical to our success. However, the lack of political progress at the national level remains troubling. The Iraqis’ must step up to the plate and prove that they can maintain a stable and functional government- only they can achieve this goal. “I hope the testimony today will encourage members of both parties to take a thoughtful and objective look at Iraq and determine the best way to move forward together. Today is also an opportunity to recognize the sacrifice and achievements of our men and women who are serving our country in Iraq. They have stepped up and done the job we have asked of them. I thank them for their continued dedication to protecting freedom here and around the world.”
12.27.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers released the following statement today to mark the six-year anniversary of September 11th: “September 11th will always be a solemn reminder of the thousands of innocent lives lost and the day that our country was forever changed. Let us never forget the victims of this senseless attack, the first-responders who heroically risked their lives, and the community that came together to demonstrate the compassion of the human spirit. “There still exist those groups and people who want to destroy our country and the way we live. We must stand firm in our resolve to defeat terrorists and promote freedom around the world. “Today is also a day to show support for the brave men and women who are serving in our U.S. military. I believe the top priority of our country should be to ensure the security of its people, and our troops have answered the call of duty. They are the defenders of freedom and have shown a willingness to sacrifice it all for the greater good of our country. I especially want to recognize the men and women at Fairchild Air Force Base who have played a large role in the Global War on Terror and remind them of the positive difference they are making in the world.”
12.27.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers released the following statement today after signing a Republican discharge petition to force a vote on a bill to ensure all earmarks, including those in tax and authorization bills, are publicly disclosed and can be challenged on the House floor: “The American public wants and deserves to know that their tax payer dollars are being spent wisely. While not all earmarks are bad, too often pet projects are hidden in bills or slipped in at the last minute during closed door meetings. If a member isn’t willing to publicly take ownership or defend a project for which they have requested funds, then we shouldn’t be spending taxpayer dollars on it. We need to shed light on the earmark process and ensure that money is only being spent on legitimate projects. “When the Democrats regained the majority, they promised to have an open and accountable government. They need to fulfill that promise by extending earmark reforms to tax and authorization bills. “This legislation will restore accountability and transparency to the earmark process and deserves to at least be brought to the floor for a vote. I hope all my colleagues in the House, both Democrats and Republicans, will come together to support this legislation and restore integrity to Congress.”
12.27.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers today voted in favor of a bill to provide health insurance for uninsured children without cutting benefits to seniors. The bill will renew the State Children’s Health Insurance Program (SCHIP) for another five years and protect over 6.6 million children who currently receive health insurance through this program. “This is not a perfect bill but does offer a needed safety net to provide health insurance to those children who need it most,” said Cathy McMorris Rodgers. “I continue to hear from people all throughout Eastern Washington about the challenges of affording health insurance. This program has played an important role in ensuring access to health care for low-income children. I do believe we must focus on developing new solutions to address the growing number of uninsured. Government-run health care is not the answer to our nation’s current health care problems.” For Eastern Washington, the final SCHIP bill will safeguard the Medicare Advantage plans held by over 10,000 seniors. It will also protect physician-owned hospitals and ensure two clinics in Okanagan County will remain open. In addition, the bill also includes a “fix” for Washington state that will allow it receive the full allotment of federal SCHIP funds. The SCHIP bill supported by McMorris Rodgers represents a compromise between the House and the Senate. It would cover three to four million uninsured children by investing $35 billion in additional funding in children’s health insurance over five years. It focuses on enrolling the lowest income eligible children first, reduces federal assistance if states expand coverage to middle-income children and phases out coverage to adults.
12.27.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers offered an amendment today in the House Natural Resources Committee to clarify that the money made available under the Secure Rural Schools program is intended to be additional money for schools located in counties with forest service land and cannot be used in lieu of general funds that states make available to support public schools. The amendment was passed unanimously by a voice vote. “The original intent of the Secure Rural Schools program is not being carried out and schools are being robbed of their intended funds,” said Cathy McMorris Rodgers. “Every dollar these schools receive from the federal government as part of this program is matched by an equivalent loss of general funding from the State. This is wrong and our schools deserve these additional funds. The money from this program would help the schools in our rural communities provide basic services that are essential to providing children with a quality education.” McMorris Rodgers has heard from county commissioners, school board members and school superintendents throughout Eastern Washington about the need for these funds. “We have five buildings and no daytime custodians, a minimal maintenance staff, no school librarians, and only one school counselor for 1,076 kids,” said Teresa von Marbod, Superintendent Newport School District. “The money from this program would go toward basic services that we can’t currently provide. This isn’t an extra for us, it’s about giving kids the same opportunities as everyone else, services that they desperately need in a small rural community with twice the rate of poverty as the state average.” Since 1908 counties across the West received 25 percent of timber receipts from federal forest lands. The money was used to fund public schools, roads and emergency services. As timber harvests decline, Congress authorized the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act of 2000 to restore stability to the annual payments made to states and counties containing forest service land. The amendment was made to H.R. 3058, the Public Land Communities Transition Assistance Act, which reauthorizes the Secure Rural School program and fully funds the Payment in-lieu of Taxes program.
12.27.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Representatives Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA), Marion Berry (D-AR), Jerry Moran (R-KS) and Anthony Weiner (D-NY) today announced the creation of the bipartisan Congressional Community Pharmacy Coalition. The coalition will advocate for community pharmacy issues and promote the important role they play in the delivery of health care. Community pharmacists provide prescription care in rural and inner-city communities at 23,000 independent retail pharmacies nationwide. Ninety-five percent of all Americans live within five miles of their community pharmacy. It is a place where people can go to receive medications from pharmacists they know and trust, purchase prescription drugs at lower prices and receive personal service. The Coalition’s top legislative priorities include prompt payment under Medicare Part D, a fair reimbursement model under Medicaid and business negotiation rights for community pharmacies. “In rural areas of Eastern Washington, community pharmacies are often the only places available to purchase prescription drugs,” said Rep. McMorris Rodgers. “These pharmacies are on the frontline of delivering quality, affordable health care and they are on the verge of extinction. The loss of these pharmacies would leave many people, including a large number of seniors, without a way to receive necessary medications. This coalition will be an opportunity to highlight the role of community pharmacies and ensure they remain in our communities.” "In rural areas, like many that are located across the First Congressional District, pharmacists are often the first and sometimes only medical professional available," said Rep. Berry. "We must ensure community pharmacists receive their reimbursements in a fair and reasonable amount of time. Many of the bills the members of the coalition have proposed will greatly alleviate the circumstances and help these valuable medical professionals continue to serve their patients." “Community pharmacies are a part of our way of life in rural Kansas,” said Rep. Moran. “The coalition will work to ensure that the doors of local pharmacies stay open and health care needs are met. Access to a pharmacy is essential not only to maintain our quality of life, but also for the survival of our communities.” “The deck is stacked against community pharmacies,” said Rep. Weiner. “This coalition wants to level the playing field for our neighborhood pharmacists with the big chains of the world by providing prompt payment under Medicare Part D, a fair reimbursement rate under Medicaid and better negotiating rights for our essential community pharmacies." Members of the Coalition include Representatives Robert Aderholt (R-AL), Michael Arcuri (D-NY), Roy Blunt (R-MO), John Boozman (R-AR), Nancy Boyda (D-KS), Christopher Carney (D-PA), Geoff David (R-KY), Lincoln Davis (D-TN), Lloyd Doggett (D-TX), Thelma Drake (R-VA), Jo Ann Emerson (R-MO), Virginia Foxx (R-NC), Virgil Goode (R-VA), Bob Goodlatte (R-VA), Stephanie Herseth Sandlin (D-SD), Maurice Hinchey (D-NY), Peter Hoekstra (R-MI), Walter Jones (R-NC), Nick Lampson (D-TX), Frank LoBiondo (R-NJ), Carolyn McCarthy (D-NY), Mike McIntyre (D-NC), Charlie Melancon (D-LA), Solomon Ortiz (D-TX), Ciro Rodriguez (D-TX), Mike Ross (D-AR), Peter Sessions (R-TX), Zack Space (D-OH), Todd Tiahrt (R-KS), Greg Walden (R-OR), Roger Wicker (R-MS) and Charles Wilson (D-OH).
12.27.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers today urged members of the House Judiciary Committee to pass legislation she introduced earlier this year that will impose mandatory penalties for registered sex offenders who knowingly access an Internet website with the intent to communicate with an unsuspecting child. “This year I became a mother, and like every parent, it is important for me to keep my child safe as he grows up,” said McMorris Rodgers. “It is alarming that sites like Facebook and MySpace are being used by thousands of registered sex offenders as a way to prey on innocent children. We need to pass this legislation to send a clear message to sex offenders that if they use these Internet sites to contact children they will go to jail.” McMorris Rodgers testified on her bill, H.R. 3144, the Internet Sex Offender Prohibition Act of 2007, during a Judiciary Committee Oversight Hearing on Sex Crimes and the Internet: Danger is Just a Click Away. The bill would amend Section 2251 of Title 18 of the U.S. Code to include a mandatory penalty of 5 to 20 years in prison for any individual required to register as a sex offender who knowingly access an Internet website with the intent to communicate with an unsuspecting child under the age of 18. The Associated Press recently reported that MySpace.com has identified over 29,000 sex offenders with profiles on their site. This is four times the number that was reported by the company two months ago. According the FBI, as many as 50,000 child predators are prowling the Internet, and one in five children between the ages of 10 and 17 will receive a sexual solicitation online during their lifetime. “Nearly 4,200 children in Spokane County were victims of physical abuse, sexual abuse or neglect in 2005,” continued McMorris Rodgers. “We must not only focus on keeping children safe from strangers they meet on the street, but protecting them from strangers they meet online.” Washington state’s Attorney General, Rob McKenna, recently launched the Youth Internet Safety Task Force to address issues of predation, while at the same time devising ways to combat the proliferation of child pornography and ultimately the further sexual exploitation and victimization of our children.
12.27.2008	(Washington , D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers today signed on to two pieces of legislation that will help veterans and their families with burial costs. The legislation will also increase funding for the Department of Veterans Affairs state cemetery grant program – the program which will help fund an Eastern Washington Veterans cemetery. “We must provide our veterans with the services, care and benefits they deserve,” said McMorris Rogers. “As we prepare to build a cemetery in Eastern Washington for our veterans, these bills will make burial more affordable for our veterans and their families.” The two bills are H.R. 2696, the Veterans’ Dignified Burial Assistance Act that increases federally funded burial plot allowance from $300 to $400 for veterans buried in state cemeteries, or any cemetery other than national cemeteries. H.R. 4141 extends a $300 plot allowance for burial to children and spouses of certain veterans in state cemeteries. The Veterans Dignified Burial Assistance act also waives the deadline (currently two years from the veteran’s burial) for the state to file for reimbursement and authorizes up to $5 million to be spent under the Department of Veterans Affairs state cemetery grant program for operating and maintaining state cemeteries. “Having a veteran’s cemetery in Eastern Washington has long been a goal of mine and would be used by over 140,000 veterans in my Eastern Washington district,” continued McMorris Rodgers. “The additional money made available for state cemeteries should help our efforts in Eastern Washington.” Both bills have been referred to the House Veterans Affairs Committee for consideration. Construction of an Eastern Washington Veterans Cemetery is slated to begin in November 2008.
12.26.2008	(Washington, DC) – Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) today announced new hires in her Capitol Hill office. Destry Henderson will start as the Congresswoman’s new press secretary on January 7th. He is a native of Colfax, Washington and a graduate of Washington State University. He spent the last five years working for broadcast news stations throughout the Pacific Northwest including KREM TV in Spokane and was most recently an Executive Producer at Northwest Cable News in Seattle. He replaces Jill Strait who left to serve as the spokeswoman for the Dino Rossi for Governor campaign. Kristin Garesche joins the office as a Legislative Aide and will handle health care, education, labor and related issues. She will manage the Congresswoman’s legislation on health information technology, competitiveness and staff her on the Education and Labor Committee. Kristin has over five years of legislative experience on Capitol Hill where she most recently handled rural health care, community pharmacies and related issues for the late Congressman Paul Gillmor. She is a native of Youngstown, Ohio. She replaces Jaime Herrera who was recently appointed to serve Southwest Washington state in the Legislature. Major Brian Haug is a Department of Defense fellow who will staff the Congresswoman on the House Armed Services Committee (HASC) and handle military and intelligence issue. He has thirteen years of professional military service as an Air Force officer. Specifically, he has significant experience in Inter-continental Ballistic Missile (ICBM) and satellite operations. His most recent assignment was on Air Staff at the Pentagon dealing with current/future Global Positioning System (GPS) requirements and operational issues. He replaces Dan Beutler who is returning to Washington state. Ben Stecker will serve as a Junior Legislative Assistant and will assist Major Haug with military and veterans issues. He will also oversee financial services, tax and regulatory issues. He is a native of Colville and most recently was a Legislative Correspondent for Senator Larry Craig. Lena Funston will transfer from the Congresswoman’s Spokane office to the Capitol Hill office where she will serve as Senior Legislative Correspondent handling the mail system as well as covering a handful of issues for the office. Lena is a native of Spokane and a graduate of Eastern Washington University. “This new team brings a good mix of Eastern Washington roots and legislative experience,” said McMorris Rodgers. “They will be instrumental in continuing the important work we've started for Eastern Washington including access to health care, an affordable, reliable energy supply and strengthening the role of Fairchild Air Force Base.” In November McMorris Rodgers announced the promotion of Chrissy Poe to Legislative Director. Poe, a native of Colville, will oversee the legislative efforts of the office. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.26.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers applauds new efforts announced today that will help keep kids safer online. MySpace.com and law enforcement agencies from across the country announced an agreement to protect kids from online predators by setting the profiles of the youngest users to private. The agreement also makes it easier for parents to limit children’s access to social networking sites. Under today’s agreement, MySpace.com also pledged to delete the profiles of registered sex offenders who use the website. “MySpace took a positive first step, but Congress can also protect kids online by increasing the penalties for people who use the Internet to prey on children,” McMorris Rodgers says. “That is why I introduced the Internet Sex Offender Prohibition Act of 2007. It would lock sex offenders up if they use websites like MySpace.com to communicate with kids.” McMorris Rodgers urges Congress to pass her legislation during the upcoming year. H.R. 3144, the Internet Sex Offender Prohibition Act of 2007, would amend Section 2251 of Title 18 of the U.S. Code to include a mandatory penalty of 5 to 20 years in prison for any individual required to register as a sex offender who knowingly accesses an Internet website with the intent to communicate with an unsuspecting child under the age of 18. Washington State Attorney General Rob McKenna is among the attorneys general who reached the agreement with MySpace.com. McKenna recently launched the Youth Internet Safety Task Force to address issues of predation, while at the same time devising ways to combat the proliferation of child pornography and the further sexual exploitation and victimization of our children. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.26.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers returned to Washington, D.C. today to start the 2008 legislative session. She will focus on issues important to Eastern Washington, ranging from health care to energy. “I continue to hear about the need to reduce energy costs. Whether you buy diesel for your tractor, or buy a lot of electricity for your manufacturing plant, the high cost of energy hurts Eastern Washington,” McMorris Rodgers said. “We need to find ways to encourage innovation and efficiency and work to increase the access to fuel sources already available.” During her time home, McMorris Rodgers toured Avista Utilties’ generating plant in Kettle Falls which turns wood waste into electricity in an environmentally friendly manner. “We shouldn’t forget the fuel sources of today as we encourage development of fuel sources for tomorrow,” McMorris Rodgers said. In 2007, McMorris Rodgers supported recognizing hydropower as a renewable resource, and will continue those efforts this year. McMorris Rodgers will also continue her bipartisan work to improve access to quality, affordable health care in Eastern Washington. During 2007, she helped restore funding for rural health care, worked to further the education of future medical professionals and advocated using technology to help streamline the red tape involved in health care. “We use 21st century medical technology in operating rooms and clinics. There’s no reason we can’t use the same technology to cut down on the paperwork and recordkeeping that bogs down our health care system,” McMorris Rodgers said. McMorris Rodgers looks forward to tackling these and other issues during the upcoming year. “I look forward to supporting a farm bill that benefits Eastern Washington farmers and rural communities – not one that adds billions of dollars in taxes,” McMorris Rodgers said. McMorris Rodgers also looks forward to working across party lines to balance the budget and expand the role of Fairchild Air Force Base to help keep our nation and communities safe. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.26.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers announced her support for a bipartisan plan to help stabilize the economy. “I know how expensive every day necessities like food and fuel are,” McMorris Rodgers said. “Combine that with a sliding stock market and turmoil in the housing industry, people in Eastern Washington and across the rest of America are increasingly worried about the economy.” McMorris Rodgers supports bipartisan solutions that will create jobs and jumpstart our economy. Such solutions McMorris Rodgers supports include: Keeping taxes low and lowering them even further to make sure you have the money to afford the things you need Keeping wasteful government spending in check Lowering energy costs Expanding access to affordable, high-quality health care “More taxes and more government spending are not the solution to restoring confidence in the American economy,” McMorris Rodgers said. “We cannot tax our way to an economic recovery and we cannot wastefully spend our way into job creation.” Republicans and Democrats must come together to deliver a package of solutions that will spur job creation and put America on a stronger economic footing. McMorris Rodgers says that requires a bipartisan solution. “Americans won’t put up with the same-old, same-old from Washington. It’s clear that Washington, D.C. is broken and the American people are searching for leaders who will fix it.” McMorris Rodgers looks forward to working with members of both parties to improve the economy and focus on other items important to Eastern Washington. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.26.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Republican and Democratic leaders in the U.S. House announced a bipartisan economic stimulus package. “This is a perfect example of how both parties can come together to work for the greater good of Eastern Washington and the rest of America,” Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers says. Today’s agreement, in principal, calls for rebate checks up to $600 for individuals and $1,200 for couples, as well as tax relief for employers – and doesn’t contain unneeded spending or tax increases. Leaders must still bring the bill to the House floor for consideration. “I will do my best to make sure the bipartisanship continues as we debate the bill – and afterward,” McMorris Rodgers says. “Working together is the best way to increase access to affordable, quality healthcare, find solutions to the high energy prices we all face and help keep our nation and communities safe.” Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.26.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers issued the following statement in response to President Bush’s State of the Union Address: “President Bush’s speech tonight reminded us America remains the land of opportunity, despite the challenges we face. The President outlined some important steps we can take to improve our economy – including passing an economic stimulus package that returns tax dollars to their rightful owners – the taxpayers – who we should trust to use that money in ways they see fit. Tomorrow the House will vote on an economic stimulus package that I believe will help kick start our economy. “I continue to hear from people throughout Eastern Washington that we need to do more to control government spending. I couldn’t agree more. I was pleased the President outlined a plan to reform the earmark process. It’s one way the government can balance the budget to ensure future generations aren’t burdened with our wasteful spending. Reforming the earmark process will also help restore American’s trust in their government.” Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-04118
12.26.2008	(Spokane, WA) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers, leaders from Greater Spokane Incorporated and Spokane County leaders updated the public on efforts to host the next generation of air refueling tankers, the KC-X, at Fairchild Air Force Base. A delegation including the Congresswoman, representatives from GSI, and Spokane City and Spokane County leaders met with General Arthur Licthe, Commander, Air Mobility Command at Scott Air Force Base in Illinois on Wednesday, January 30th. “General Lichte underscored how important Fairchild Air Force Base is to the Air Force and to the security of the United States,” Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers says. “Fairchild Air Force Base is critical to the Air Force’s Global Reach capability, and will continue to be for a very long time. Strengthening and expanding the role of Fairchild Air Force Base is one of my top priorities. We need to continue what we’ve been doing as a community to make it easy for the Air Force to decide to locate the KC-X tankers here.” Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.26.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Starting tomorrow, it will become less expensive for Eastern Washington veterans to travel for medical care. The Veterans Administration is increasing the reimbursement veterans receive when they travel to VA facilities for medical care. The rate, effective February 1st, 2008, goes from 11 cents per mile to 28.5 cents per mile. This is the first increase in the mileage reimbursement in 30 years. “Veterans in Eastern Washington have been waiting a long time for this increase.” Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers says. “With the price of gasoline now over $3.00 a gallon, veterans who traveled to Seattle or Portland for care paid for much of the trip out of their own pockets. Although 28.5 cents a mile is still not enough to cover the cost of a trip to Seattle, it is a step in the right direction.” While increasing the payment, VA, as mandated by law, also equally increased the deductible amounts applied to certain mileage reimbursements. The new deductibles are $7.77 for a one way trip, $15.54 for a round trip, with a maximum of $46.62 per calendar month. However, these deductibles can be waived if they cause a financial hardship to the veteran. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.26.2008	(Washington, D.C. – Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers spoke on the House floor (Watch speech here) and voted to reauthorize the Higher Education Bill. “While I didn’t agree with every provision in this bill,” McMorris Rodgers said, “I am pleased that the bill aims to improve America’s competitiveness, seeks to make college more affordable and cracks down on “diploma mills” where people manufacture fake diplomas.” One of McMorris Rodgers’ top priorities in Congress is developing a 21st century workforce and education system. “As the first in my family to graduate from college, I realize the value and importance of a good education. It is the doorway to success and a critical component of making our country more competitive in a global economy,” McMorris Rodgers said. The bill also increases competitiveness by allowing content specialists to enhance classroom learning in areas where some school districts face a shortage of teachers. “This is an effort I’ve worked on since I arrived in Congress. It brings experts – like Bill Gates – who have real-world experience and an interest in teaching into classrooms to meet specific needs,” McMorris Rodgers said. “It can provide another link between schools and their communities while bolstering math, science, and foreign language.” The bill also makes college more affordable for many Eastern Washington students. Each year Eastern Washington students receive approximately $8.7 million through the Perkins loan program. Today’s bill also helps shut down diploma mills by increasing consumer information and will create a task force to develop legislation that will further crack down on diploma mills “We need to protect the integrity of our higher education system and the diplomas that so many of us worked so hard to earn,” McMorris Rodgers said. Contact: Destry Henderson 202-225-2006 202-279-0418
12.26.2008	(Walla Walla, WA) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers met with Veterans Affairs Secretary James Peake at the Jonathan M. Wainwright Memorial VA Medical Center. “I thanked the Secretary for making it a priority to visit Walla Walla to see first-hand the remarkable work being done here,” McMorris Rodgers said. “I also thanked Senator Patty Murray for her work in advancing veterans’ causes and for inviting Secretary Peake.” McMorris Rodgers thanked Secretary Peake for increasing the reimbursement veterans receive when they travel to VA facilities for medical care. Now, Eastern Washington veterans who must travel to Seattle or Portland for care will receive 28.5 cents per mile, an increase from just 11 cents per mile. “Although there is more to be done, the increase is definitely a step in the right direction, and I thank you for doing this for our veterans,” McMorris Rodgers told Secretary Peake. The Walla Walla VA facility is scheduled for a $91 million renovation in 2012. Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers urged the Secretary to allocate money for the renovation sooner. “We need the money by 2010, because these veterans need a better place to get the care they deserve,” McMorris Rodgers said. McMorris Rodgers also pledged to continue her work to provide veterans increased access to affordable, quality healthcare, to increase the federal funding to provide the types of care that are important to veterans, and to support important legislation to ensure benefits and funding meet the needs of veterans. “I am committed to working on behalf of all veterans and ensuring that they receive the services, care, and benefits they earned while honorably serving our county,” McMorris Rodgers said. “Having a husband who served 26 years in the Navy, I am continually reminded of the gratitude we owe our veterans.” Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.26.2008	“Today’s announcement is a surprising disappointment for Washington State,” Cathy McMorris Rodgers said. “Boeing was the smart choice for taxpayers for building the tankers quickly and efficiently, right here in the U.S.” “Replacing the aging tankers is especially critical for Eastern Washington and Fairchild Air Force Base. Strengthening and expanding the role of Fairchild is one of my top priorities,” continued McMorris Rodgers. “Any challenge that may follow today’s news needs to be done so quickly so that we don’t have further delay in getting these new tankers built.” Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.26.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers released the following statement on Boeing’s decision to ask the Government Accountability Office (GAO) to review the Air Force’s decision to award the contract to replace the air refueling tankers to a team of Northrop Grumman and European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company (EADS): “Boeing has raised some valid concerns about the decision to award the contract to EADS/Northrop Grumman. A review will help us better evaluate the decision-making process used by the Air Force and make sure it was a fair process. “Boeing has a 75-year tradition of producing aerial refueling technology here in the U.S. It’s important we encourage such experience and investment to continue so our region and America can remain competitive. We must start by promoting a business-friendly climate which includes low taxes, a less burdensome regulatory environment and a strong supply of well-educated engineers, researchers and machinists. “It’s also important we replace the aging KC-135 tankers at Fairchild Air Force Base as soon as possible. Strengthening and expanding the role of Fairchild Air Force base is one of my top priorities. Most of the KC-135’s were built in the 1950s and 1960s. Operating aircraft that will be 80 to 90 years old, before they will be retired, is simply unheard of in the civilian commercial industry.” Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.26.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers announced she will not seek earmarks this year. The House Democratic Majority is forcing Republicans to choose between accepting a moratorium on earmarks or continuing the status quo. “Business as usual is not acceptable,” McMorris Rodgers said. “Time and time again I’ve seen where the earmark process has been used and abused for personal and political gain. Congress needs real earmark reform.” McMorris Rodgers supports creating a bipartisan panel of Members who will examine the current process, seek public input and suggest changes to the earmark process—one that guarantees transparency and accountability. “I am proud of my earmark record which bears this out,” McMorris Rodgers said. Using this process, I’ve acquired earmarks for the sole purpose of enhancing Eastern Washington business, agriculture, cultural, and educational interests. “I support earmarks but not under the current system. Our tax dollars should be used wisely or not at all. We simply can't continue with the current system – it hurts tax payers and the people of our region. Eastern Washington has many valuable projects that I believe will be funded under a new and improved system. I am hopeful we will use this year to make changes that will make taxpayers proud.” Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.26.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers proposed on the floor of the U.S. House of Representatives new liability protection for firefighters. It’s estimated nearly 75% of child restraint systems are installed incorrectly. To help remedy that, many fire departments train personnel to properly install and use child safety seats and then provide parents with voluntary help to make sure their child’s car seat is installed properly. But a recent study by the National Highway Transportation Safety Administration found that while the courses were effective, some fire departments were concerned about liability issues, leaving some fire departments and communities unwilling to offer these life-saving services. “When my husband and I had Cole last year, we were advised to have a fire department ensure our seat was properly installed,” McMorris Rodgers said. “This service the firefighters are offering is too valuable to let it be bogged down by the threat of lawsuits. We should not allow the trial lawyers to hijack the safety of our children.” The proposal McMorris Rodgers offered today would protect fire departments that wish to offer this service by asking states or local governments covered by the federal fire safety legislation – within two years – to shield their properly trained firefighters from frivolous lawsuits when they offer inspection and advice regarding car seat use. The measure to amend the reauthorization of the United States Fire Administration (H.R. 4847) failed by a vote of 205 to 209. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.26.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, the National AHEC Organization (NAO) awarded Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers the 2008 Public Policy Leadership Award for her commitment to the health of our nation and her work in strengthening the health care workforce by actively supporting Title VII Health Professions Training programs. Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers is the primary co-signer of the letter in the House of Representatives to support funding for Title VII programs. The AHEC (Area Health Education Centers) works to improve the health of individuals and communities by transforming health care through education. “Increasing access to quality, affordable health care is one of my top priorities,” McMorris Rodgers says. “I applaud the work the AHEC is doing to help address the critical shortage of medical professionals in our health care system by training the next generation of doctors, nurses, lab technicians and other specialists. I’m committed to helping maintain the Title VII funding that pays for programs like AHEC.” Background: Title VII programs provide grants to educational institutions and other venues that train and educate primary health care professionals in rural and urban areas classified as underserved. The training that students receive through Title VII programs greatly increases the likelihood that they will return to and serve these underserved areas after program completion, addressing our nation’s workforce shortage. One of the regional programs that has benefited from this funding is the Rural Health Training program referred to as WWAMI, which stands for Washington, Wyoming, Alaska, Montana and Idaho. This important program recruits and trains primary care doctors to practice in underserved areas – such as the rural areas of Eastern Washington. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0415
12.26.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers will attend her first meeting as conferee for the 2007 Farm Bill. She was appointed conferee yesterday. The U.S. Constitution requires that in order for a bill to be presented to the President for signature, it must pass both the House and Senate in the exact same form. The role of a Conference Committee is to work out differences between the House and Senate version of the bill. McMorris Rodgers is the Republican representative of the Natural Resources Committee in Conference, making her well-positioned to protect and advance Eastern Washington agricultural interests through the farm bill. “As your Representative to Congress, I am committed to making sure our agriculture industry and tradition remain strong,” McMorris Rodgers said. “I’m always proud to remind people agriculture is the number one industry in Washington State. This farm bill is important to ensuring our Eastern Washington farmers remain competitive. “I have five goals to advance agriculture in Eastern Washington and creating a strong farm policy that enables farmers to access new markets while investing in cutting edge research is one of those goals. Last year, I was pleased that so many of our farmers participated in Farm Bill listening sessions with me. We visited Davenport, Ritzville, Walla Walla, Spangle, Omak, Colfax and Springdale. “My second goal for agriculture is to expand domestic energy supplies and explore alternative energy sources. Whether it’s paying to fill up their tractors or fertilize their fields, expensive energy hurts our agriculture economy. We need to develop a comprehensive energy policy that includes saying ‘yes’ to American energy.” “My third goal is to keep land productive and farmers competitive – whether it is my sponsorship of country of origin labeling legislation, or support for fair trade agreements that benefit Eastern Washington farmers. “Fourth: protecting and enhancing water supplies and storage. Water is critical to farmers. At the top of the list is protecting our dams in the Columbia/Snake River system, as well as finding solutions to the Odessa Aquifer. “The fifth goal is ensuring the viability of our rural communities. In the Farm Bill, much of this is done through USDA rural development, which has funded sewer, water and other infrastructure improvements in the 5th District. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.26.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, as thousands of people in Eastern Washington drop off their tax forms at the post office, they’re reminded of how much they pay in taxes—and how complicated paying taxes is. Some facts to consider: The Tax Foundation reports the Internal Revenue Code pertaining to federal income taxes contained 1,283,000 words. That is 282 times as many words as the Constitution. In Fiscal Year 2006, the IRS estimated that individual and business taxpayers spent 6.65 billion hours complying with the tax laws. That is the equivalent of 3.2 million employees working 40-hour weeks year-round without any vacation. The 1040EZ form, the “simplest” in the IRS inventory, on average required 3 hours and 46 minutes to complete, up from 1 hour and 31 minutes in 1988. “The numbers clearly show our tax system overburdens and overtaxes Americans,” Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers says. “We need to work to keep taxes low. We cannot tax our way to job creation and economic stability.” In order to improve the economy and simplify our tax structure, McMorris Rodgers: Supports making the tax cuts of 2001 and 2003 permanent. If these tax cuts were to expire, the average person in Washington State would pay $3,065 more in taxes, the 12th largest increase in the country. Cosponsored the Taxpayer Choice Act of 2007 (H.R. 3818) which repeals the alternative minimum tax and offers taxpayers a choice between the current tax system or a simpler one. Cosponsored the Death Tax Repeal Act of 2007 (H.R. 1586) which abolishes any form of tax triggered by death, inheritance, and gifting. Cosponsored the Seniors Tax Simplification Act (H.R. 432) which directs the IRS to create a new, easier form for seniors to fill out. Taxpayers older than 65 are not allowed to fill out the 1040EZ form. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.26.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers recently co-sponsored the following pieces of legislation in support of the men and women serving in America’s Armed Forces. The Hubbard Act (H.R. 6580) would extend benefits and services to military members who voluntarily separate from the military due to sole survivorship status. The term “sole survivor” applies when more than one immediate family member serves in the military and the family loses all but one of the family members serving in the Armed Forces. Montgomery GI Bill Educational Assistance Transferability Act of 2008 (H.R. 5229) would allow active duty, Reserve and National Guard military members to transfer unused portions of their GI Bill benefits to their spouse, children or other eligible dependents. Recognizing Family Members of United States Armed Forces (H. Con. Res, 295) expresses Congress’s deepest appreciation to the families, both immediate and extended, of members of the United States Armed Forces for the unwavering support, both physical and emotional, that family members give their loved ones while they answer the call to serve their country and keep the United Sates safe. Acknowledging the Service Armed Forces Members Give to the U.S. (H. Res. 1020) which recognizes the tremendous service members of the Armed Forces have given to the Nation, especially those who have been wounded in combat and commends the actions of private citizens and organizations who volunteer their continued support to America’s wounded warriors. “One of my top priorities is keeping our nation and communities safe,” McMorris Rodgers says. “Our Armed Forces play a vital role in that. It’s important to honor the service they give to the nation now, and in the future.” McMorris Rodgers also recently unveiled an additional online resource to help Eastern Washington veterans. The Veterans Portal offers veterans information about how to navigate the Veterans Administration, provides veterans with local resources for help, and lets them know where to find other sources of federal, state and local information. The Veterans Portal is accessible from the front page of McMorris Rodgers’ website or by clicking here. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.26.2008	Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers and Senator Patty Murray released the following statements regarding the Department of Veterans Affairs’ announcement that current Walla Walla Veterans Affairs Medical Center Director Sharon Helman will become the full time director of the Spokane VA Medical Center: “Eastern Washington’s veterans have benefited from Sharon Helman’s leadership and dedication. Sharon helped lead and manage a high quality of care for veterans at the Walla Walla VA Medical Center despite the many changes and challenges the facility has faced,” McMorris Rodgers said. “As the full time director at the VA Medical Center in Spokane with continued oversight of the Walla Walla VA Medical Center, veterans who rely on the Spokane and Walla Walla facilities for their care will benefit from Sharon’s leadership, vision and dedication. I am confident Sharon’s leadership will prove essential in making Eastern Washington’s VA medical facilities a shining example of the commitment and dedication our nation has for caring for veterans and their families.” “I am thrilled that the VA has recognized Sharon’s outstanding work and is giving her the opportunity to help even more veterans in Eastern Washington. Her leadership in Walla Walla has increased access to care and services to our region’s veterans. And her enthusiasm and ‘get-it-done’ attitude have made a real difference throughout our region. I can’t think of a better advocate for our veterans or a better person for this expanded position than Sharon,” said Senator Patty Murray. DeAnn Dietrich will assume the position of acting director at the Walla Walla location on June 2nd. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.26.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers met with Gonzaga University students Monday who demonstrated how they are not only helping the people who need it most, but helping the planet, too. A team of Gonzaga University students is in Washington, D.C. this week competing for the Environmental Protection Agency’s P3 Award. P3 stands for “people, prosperity and the planet,” and is a student design competition for sustainability. The Gonzaga University team submitted a project called “West African Technology, Education and Reciprocity (WATER) for Benin.” The WATER team trained people living in the sub-Saharan African country of Benin to filter their drinking water using water filters that are easy to use, economical and locally manufactured with environmentally sustainable materials. “One of the highlights of serving in Congress is meeting ordinary people doing extraordinary things. This team of Gonzaga students is a perfect example of that,” McMorris Rodgers said. “The knowledge and service these students are giving to the citizens of Benin will positively affect generations to come and doing it in an environmentally friendly way.” In addition to visiting their exhibit on the National Mall today, McMorris Rodgers will formally recognize the team’s efforts in the Congressional Record when the House returns to session later this week. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.26.2008	(Washington, D.C.) The U.S. Chamber of Commerce recently recognized Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers with the “Spirit of Enterprise Award.” The Chamber gives the award to members of Congress who support policies that improve trade, investment and transportation. “The business community depends on solid partnerships on Capitol Hill to help grow the economy and create new jobs for hardworking Americans,” Chamber president and CEO Tom Donahue said. “Representative McMorris Rodgers has proven to be an effective ally to the business community, supporting legislation that helps grow the economy and creates new jobs for hardworking Americans.” “I am honored to receive the award,” McMorris Rodgers said. “Promoting job creation and economic growth in Eastern Washington is one of my top priorities. But we need to do more. Improving our Eastern Washington infrastructure—the roads, rails, airports and even broadband access—will allow for the fast, efficient and safe flow of traffic freight and information. “Also, an affordable source of energy is important to maintaining a strong economy. It’s time Congress develops a comprehensive energy policy. We can and we must start meeting American energy needs with American resources. In addition, increasing access to quality, affordable health care and improving our education system to help make our nation more competitive will help strengthen Eastern Washington businesses.” Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.26.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers led a delegation of Spokane business leaders to the Pentagon Thursday for a series of meetings regarding Fairchild Air Force Base. There, they met with top Air Force leaders, including Air Force Chief of Staff, General Michael Moseley. “I was glad to hear General Moseley indicate that Fairchild AFB will be among the first bases to receive the new KC-45A tanker and that Fairchild AFB will continue to play a critical role in our national security,” McMorris Rodgers said. “I am proud of the role our community plays in supporting Fairchild AFB to ensure it remains a viable asset for protecting our nation here and abroad.” Greater Spokane Incorporated led a delegation of Spokane-area business and education leaders to Washington, D.C. as part of its annual fly-in where members conducted a number of meetings to discuss issues important to Eastern Washington, including Fairchild Air Force Base. “Civic leaders are key in providing insight on issues that are important to local communities,” Air Force Chief of Staff General Michael Moseley said. “The support of Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers and community members of Eastern Washington, the dedication and quality of Active Duty and National Guard personnel and the strategic location in the Northwest all make Fairchild AFB very important to the Air Force.” The group also met with Lieutenant General Craig McKinley, Director, Air National Guard and the Honorable William Anderson, Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Installations, Environments and Logistics. “Whether discussing the roles of active duty and National Guard units, housing/facility construction, environmental or land encroachment issues, everyone we met with acknowledged the tremendous support provided by the communities of Eastern Washington,” McMorris Rodgers said. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.26.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers and Senator Maria Cantwell praised a new permitting agreement for people who own cabins on Bureau of Reclamation land around Conconully. Those people own the cabins, but not the land those cabins sit on. “I am grateful the Bureau of Reclamation agreed to extend the leases from five years, as originally proposed, to now 20 years,” McMorris Rodgers said. “I’ve heard from a lot of cabin owners concerned about losing their leases. This agreement gives them the security they need to continue enjoying the area like they’ve done for generations.” "I am pleased we were able to work with the Bureau of Reclamation and the community to reach a solution that works for the people of Conconully and Okanogan County," Senator Maria Cantwell said. This agreement reverses an earlier proposal by the Bureau of Reclamation to end the permitting process altogether within 10-15 years. McMorris Rodgers sent a letter to the Commissioner of the Bureau of Reclamation, Robert Johnson, asking him to hold a public meeting on the proposed rule changes. Representatives from McMorris Rodgers’ and Senator Maria Cantwell’s office attended the meeting where the Bureau of Reclamation determined there wasn’t a competing interest for the land, and revised its proposed changes to the leasing process. While the Bureau of Reclamation will now offer 20 year leases, they will be subject to review every five years. The Bureau of Reclamation will also review the annual cost of permits, which in some cases may increase from $700 to $3375 annually. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2206202-279-0418
12.26.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers recognized Linda Hutchinson, a mathematics teacher from Shadle Park High School. Hutchinson visited Washington, D.C. to receive the Presidential Award for Excellence in Teaching Mathematics and Science. Hutchinson is just one of 108 teachers to receive this honor each year. It is the highest recognition in the United States that a kindergarten through 12th grade mathematics or science teacher may receive. McMorris Rodgers presented her a plaque recognizing her, and will enter remarks praising Mrs. Hutchinson into the Congressional Record. “I am shocked that a third of our students in this country drop out of high school at a time when I hear from Eastern Washington businesses about the shortage of qualified employees,” McMorris Rodgers says. “I applaud Mrs. Hutchinson for her commitment and dedication to teaching our next generation of scientists, doctors and engineers. To meet the demands of an increasingly advanced, global market we must better train and equip our nation’s workforce and Mrs. Hutchinson is doing just that.” Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-225-2006
12.26.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers congratulated Pullman High School students Monday who visited Washington, D.C. to put their science skills to the test. The Pullman High School Science Bowl Team is one of just 67 teams invited to the nation’s capital for a contest featuring questions on topics like biology, chemistry and physics. The team did well in the round-robin competition. The team consists of Randy Zun, Shashank Dwivedi, Suman Jandhyala, Zingyu Zhang and Prastuti Singh, and their coach Barbara Harding. “The accomplishments of the Pullman high school team bring attention to the great need we have in our country to continue to encourage high school students to pursue careers in the fields of science, technology, engineering and mathematics,” McMorris Rodgers said. “In order for our country to remain competitive, we need more young, bright students like these who will grow up to be our future doctors, scientists and engineers. I congratulate these students on their hard work and am certain they will achieve great success in the future.” In addition to visiting the team during a reception, McMorris Rodgers formally recognized the team’s efforts in the Congressional Record. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.26.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers and other members of the Congressional Down Syndrome Caucus held their first briefing. Today’s briefing marks the first official event of the bipartisan caucus since its launch last week. McMorris Rodgers co-chairs the caucus. She and her husband Brian have a one-year-old son, Cole, who has Down syndrome. “The news of Cole’s Down syndrome was at first difficult to get our arms around and we were eager to learn all we could,” McMorris Rodgers said. “I’m often asked how being a mother has changed my life and changed my priorities, and I can assure you that it’s all been for the better. I have a new passion and a new energy for everything that I do. We have every intention of doing everything possible to ensure Cole has every opportunity to reach his full potential. I believe the Congressional Down Syndrome Caucus will be a vehicle to help bring this information to the forefront so all families of children and adults with Down syndrome can lead happy lives.” There are more than 350,000 people with Down syndrome in the U.S., but past and current funding at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) is disproportionately low when it comes to finding treatments and increasing understanding of secondary disorders that often afflict people with Down syndrome, like Alzheimer’s disease and atherosclerosis. Today, the Congressional Down Syndrome Caucus held its first briefing on what research is being done at the National Institutes of Health (NIH). The NIH updated us on its 10-year research plan which calls for increased research on the medical, cognitive, and behavioral conditions that occur in people with Down syndrome. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.26.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers introduced legislation that gives working family members more flexibility during their workweek. The “Family-Friendly Workplace Act" (H.R. 6025) gives families the option to make choices that work best for them as well as meet the needs of our 21st century workforce. It gives employers the option of offering employees the choice of paid time off in lieu of cash wages for overtime hours worked if the employee prefers to take compensatory time instead of overtime pay. Instead of paid overtime, that employee could choose comp-time and take that time to care for an elderly parent or meet the needs of their kids. An employee would always be entitled to opt for overtime cash wages. “Time is one of our most precious resources. We all want more of it and yet we only have 24 hours in a day. That means we have to figure out how to work a full day, run errands, pack lunches, make dinner and spend quality time with our kids, spouse, or elderly parent,” McMorris Rodgers says. “Giving employees more flexibility in their workweek is key to increasing retention as well as attracting great employees that will help increase our country's competitiveness.” A long list of businesses who recognize the value of giving their employees more flexibility support the measure, including the American Hospital Association, the National Federation of Independent Businesses and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. “The dynamic of the American workforce will continue changing dramatically the next few generations, as one worker enters the job market for every two that leave. Business is looking at non-monetary benefits to recruit and retain highly-skilled workers,” Amy Johnson, Vice President of Workforce Development at Greater Spokane Incorporated said. “The Family Friendly Workplace Act is one tool businesses can use to recruit the desired workforce and remain competitive in today’s global economy.” Spokane-area businesses and their employees like Telect, KidCentric, Farm Services Credit Union, Provisional Staffing and Inland Northwest Health Services (INHS) already benefit from flexible workplace options. "With more than 1000 employees in the Greater Spokane region, Inland Northwest Health Services (INHS) understands the importance of providing flexibility in the workplace," said Nancy Vorhees, chief operating officer of INHS. "Our employees have told us how much they value flexibility and see it as an additional benefit." Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.26.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers and other women Members of Congress stood on the Capitol steps to unveil their new agenda “The American Families Agenda: Assuring the American Dream.” “This agenda is focused on providing Eastern Washington families with solutions to the challenges they face,” McMorris Rodgers said. “Earlier this week, I held a telephone town hall with my constituents back in Eastern Washington. Time and again, they told me how much they are concerned about the rising costs of energy and health care. This agenda recognizes those concerns and offers some solutions.” McMorris Rodgers was one of four members of Congress who drafted the agenda. It is found in five main areas. 1. Assuring more time and money for America’s families This includes the Family-Friendly Workplace Act, which Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers introduced on Tuesday, May 13th. It gives employers the option of offering employees the choice of paid time off in lieu of cash wages for overtime hours worked if the employee prefers to take compensatory time instead of overtime pay. 2. Assuring health care and retirement security for America’s families 3. Protecting America’s kids by cracking down on gangs and child predators This includes the Internet Sex Offender Prohibition Act of 2007. Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers introduced the legislation that requires mandatory prison time for registered sex offenders who use the internet to target children. 4. Assuring a quality education for all children 5. Supporting America’s military families and keeping our country safe Click here for a copy of the full agenda. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.24.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers voted in favor of the 2007 Farm Bill. It passed the House by a vote of 318 to 106. “I am supporting this Farm Bill because it is long overdue and it is important to creating a strong farm policy and safety net for Eastern Washington farmers and ranchers so they can meet the food and fiber needs of the American people. It is not a perfect bill, but a bill this size never is. The bill includes provisions to help Washington wheat growers, expand markets and research for fruit and vegetable growers, encourage alternative energy efforts, support rural development including health information technology, and bolster nutrition programs. “Ag is a $1.1 billion dollar industry in Eastern Washington. I was honored to serve on the Conference Committee to help put together the final bill and to work to protect the interests of Washington state growers. “Without a doubt, this is a historic farm bill for fruit and vegetable growers. The bill funds research, helps maintain and open international markets, and gets more fruits and vegetables into our schools. “It maintains a safety net for our wheat growers. Commodity prices are high today, but that has not always been the case. In fact, in the past ten years, average prices for wheat have been between $3.50-$4.00. With rising fuel and fertilizer costs, that price no longer would allow the farmer to break even. “Representing the Palouse, the lentil capitol of the world, I am disappointed that dry peas and lentils were not placed on equal ground with other commodity crops and that they were the only ones to see a decrease in the loan rate from the previous year.” Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.24.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers honored women members of the military during a wreath laying ceremony at Arlington National Cemetery Wednesday. McMorris Rodgers co-chairs the Congressional Women’s Caucus which organizes the annual event. “Often we take for granted the freedoms we are able to enjoy daily because of the work and sacrifice of our veterans,” McMorris Rodgers said. “We owe them all our gratitude, respect and thanks for their selfless choice to serve and give their lives for our country.” Wednesday’s event at Arlington National Cemetery comes one day after the U.S. House passed several bills important to Eastern Washington veterans and their families. Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers co-sponsored two of the bills: H.Res. 1054 honors the service and achievements of women in the Armed Forces and female veterans. Almost 350,000 women currently serve in the Armed Forces and make up almost 15 percent of Active Duty personnel and over 17 percent of the National Guard reserve forces. “Women have historically been an important part of all United States war efforts, voluntarily serving in every military conflict in United States history since the Revolutionary War,” McMorris Rodgers said. “It is an honor for me to co-sponsor this resolution that recognizes the vital role and contributions women make in support of our national security efforts.” H.R. 6048 amends the Service Member Civil Relief Act to provide for the protection of child custody arrangements for parents who are members of the Armed Forces deployed in support of a contingency operation. This legislation restricts courts from changing the custody status of a service member’s child while they are deployed and unable to participate in custody proceeding. “As our nation’s men and women answer the call to support ongoing military efforts around the world, they are striving to protect our interest and wellbeing,” McMorris Rodgers said. “For the deployed member who is a single parent, answering this call is especially difficult since they are required to transfer custody of their child (or children) to a family member or a friend. While they serve their country, it’s absolutely essential their country protects their child and the service member’s rights as a parent. This bill helps do exactly that.” Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.24.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers voted to ensure veterans have access to the emergency care they deserve when they need it and where they need it. McMorris Rodgers voted for the Veterans Emergency Care Fairness Act (H.R. 3819). The legislation requires the Department of Veterans Affairs to reimburse qualified veterans for emergency treatment received at a non-VA facility until those veterans are transferred to a VA facility. Qualifying veterans don’t have a service-connected disability, but are enrolled as active participants of the VA health care plan. “This is important for veterans and rural hospitals across Eastern Washington,” McMorris Rodgers said. “Veterans will be able to get the emergency care they deserve, even if it’s not at a VA hospital. And this also ensures the rural hospitals across Eastern Washington that give the veterans emergency care will be reimbursed.” “I’ve seen the needs of veterans who live in rural communities,” said Danna Hughes of Republic, who’s been a veterans service officer for 18 years. “This will allow the veterans who are enrolled with the VA in Spokane and that live in rural areas to be seen for an emergency in their local hospital—and have the VA pay for it. This helps those in pain by allowing them to be seen at or local hospital and the financial burden taken care of by the VA.” “The passage of this bill enables veterans ‘real’ access to healthcare,” said Ron O’Halloran, administrator of the Ferry County Public Hospital District. “No longer does a veteran or a family member providing assistance to the veteran in a time of urgency need to choose between seeking immediate medical care or driving 2.5 hours to the VA hospital in Spokane.” Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.24.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers introduced legislation (H.Res. 1228) recommending the five principles for improving our country’s health care system. “As your representative in Congress, I want you to know that increasing access to quality and affordable health care is one of my top priorities. America can have a health care system that is characterized by better prevention, coordinated care, electronic health records, cutting-edge treatments — and lower costs,” McMorris Rodgers said. “I believe by focusing on access, affordability, quality, accountability and choice, we can offer an alternative to a government-run, one-size-fits-all health care system for America. Details for the five point plan are as follows: Access to health care in preventive, emergency and rehabilitative settings in rural and urban areas. This means a long-term solution that will accurately reimburse physicians for care they provide to Medicare beneficiaries and veterans; Advancing critical health care training programs to retain health care professionals especially in rural areas Affordability to ensure the cost of health care is within the reach of families and individuals. This means a providing tax credits to help people buy and pay for health insurance; Association Health Plans and Small Business Health Plans allow businesses to band together to purchase health insurance that is more affordable and that will give people more continuity of coverage; Medical liability reform to reduce the lawsuits that are driving up the cost of health care Quality to emphasize safe and effective health service with measurable results. This can be done through health information technology, like electronic medical records and personal health records which can save lives and provide cost efficiency through decreased paperwork, less duplication and streamlined reporting. Accountability that holds ourselves, our dollars and our programs responsible for our health care. The federal government, the states, and health insurers should build new incentives into health plans to encourage wellness and prevention and to provide incentives for people to make smart choices involving their health, health care, and health coverage. Choice that allows consumers to pick the best health care plan and options to meet their individual and family needs. This means expanding health savings accounts, making health insurance portable from job to job and from state to state and allowing people to cross state lines to purchase health insurance. McMorris Rodgers will present her plan during the 3rd Annual Project Access Physician Recognition Dinner on May 28th. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.24.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA) today announced that the U.S. House of Representatives Subcommittee on Water and Power will hold a hearing in Washington, D.C. on the future role of hydropower in meeting current and future domestic energy needs. The hearing is based on a request (click here for the letter) that McMorris Rodgers made earlier this month to the Subcommittee’s Chairwoman. McMorris Rodgers serves as the lead Republican on the Water and Power Subcommittee. “In the Pacific Northwest, we have benefited from clean, renewable hydropower and I am working hard to tell the good news story about hydropower,” McMorris Rodgers said. “While we understand that hydropower is clean, renewable and emissions-free, many inside the Washington, D.C. beltway need to be educated about our region’s environmental success story, especially as Congress debates global climate change legislation. This hearing will provide that much-needed opportunity.” The hearing, entitled "Hydropower: Providing 75% of America's current renewable energy. Exploring its role as a continued source of clean, renewable energy for the future", will involve testimony from leading energy experts across the Nation and Pacific Northwest about why hydropower should be protected and promoted as a leading energy source. It will be held June 12th at 2 p.m. in 1324 Longworth House Office Building. “I am very thankful to Water and Power Subcommittee Chairwoman Grace Napolitano of California for working with me on this hearing. In a very partisan atmosphere, this hearing shows that Republicans and Democrats can still come together on an important issue like this,” McMorris Rodgers said. A complete witness list and more information will be released prior to the hearing. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.24.2008	(Spokane, WA) On Wednesday, May 28th, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers will host the 5th District Women’s Conference, open to the public, to discuss the issues facing women and families in the workforce and our communities. “As a new mom, I struggle to find that balance every day,” McMorris Rodgers said. “Families need flexibility more than anything. My Women’s Conference will address some of the challenges for families—and offer some solutions.” Today’s workforce isn’t what it used to be—especially when it comes to working families. Between 1950 and 2000, the number of working women between 25 and 55 years of age more than doubled in the United States. In 1950, less than 12 percent of mothers with children under age 6 were in the labor force. Today, more than 60 percent of them work outside the home. “It’s long past time for laws and institutions formed more than 50 years ago to become more family friendly,” said National Center for Policy Analysis Distinguished Fellow Terry Neese, who heads the NCPA Family Policy Center. “Families need 21st century public policies that provide flexibility, portability, and security. Today’s economy demands it.” Earlier this month, McMorris Rodgers and other members of Congress rolled out a plan called “The American Families Agenda: Assuring the American Dream.” The National Center for Policy Analysis helped develop the five part plan. It includes: Assuring more time and money for America’s families. Assuring health care and retirement security for America’s families Protecting America’s kids Assuring quality education for America’s children Supporting America’s military families and securing the homeland Cathy McMorris Rodgers’ 5th District Women’s ConferenceWednesday, May 28th at 8:00 a.m.Gonzaga University’s Jepson Center502 East Boone Avenue, Spokane, WA Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.24.2008	(Spokane, WA) On Saturday, May 31st, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers will host a Veterans and Military Resource fair to connect Eastern Washington veterans to the many programs, benefits, jobs and services available to them. This year, participants can attend a resume-building workshop as well as a panel discussion about how children are affected when their mother or father deploys. There are more than 100,000 veterans in Eastern Washington. All veterans and their families are encouraged to attend. This is McMorris Rodgers’ second Veterans and Military Resource Fair. Last August, more than 350 veterans received information and help from more than 20 veterans-related groups from across Washington State. “I look forward to building on last year’s success in connecting our region’s veterans with the benefits and services they’ve earned,” McMorris Rodgers said. “This resource fair shows our veterans and military that that we appreciate their service to our country and want to help them have the opportunity to get services available now in our community.” In addition, McMorris Rodgers will present the Purple Heart to David Witte. The Vietnam Veteran was hurt in September of 1968 when a mortar exploded, sending shrapnel into his back. “I can’t say enough thanks to the people who’ve helped me straighten out my service records allowing me to receive this award,” Witte said. “I have so much appreciation for them—it’s overwhelming. It’s humbling.” McMorris Rodgers’ Veterans and Military Resource FairSaturday, May 31st 9:00 a.m.-1 p.m.WSU Riverpoint Campus412 East Spokane Falls Boulevard, Spokane, WA Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.24.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers praised Fairchild Air Force Base’s dedication to protecting the environment, employee safety and occupational health. On June 4th, members of the Fairchild Air Force Base Environmental Management Subcommittee received the 2007 Secretary of Defense Environmental Excellence in Weapons System Acquisition award during a formal ceremony at the Pentagon. Fairchild Air Force Base’s Environmental Management (EM) Subcommittee has achieved substantial accomplishments in the area of green procurement and pollution prevention acquisition. The team ensures every acquisition initiative takes into account a wide variety of environmental, safety and occupational health considerations. “Fairchild provides a shining example of how base-level efforts can significantly improve the system acquisition efforts while observing and developing new ways to protect our environment,” Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers said. “This Department of Defense level recognition is well deserved and complements many of the countless environmentally friendly programs and efforts taking place in Eastern Washington.” For more information on the award, click here.
12.24.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers announced she is co-sponsoring the Veterans Education Improvement Act. The legislation would update the Montgomery GI Bill to widen educational opportunities for current and former members of our Armed Forces. Highlights of the Veterans Education Improvement Act (H.R. 5684) include: Substantially increasing the amount of basic education assistance for veterans equal to the average cost of the tuition at a four-year public college or university; Providing veterans with a monthly cost of living stipend; Extending the time limitation for use of education benefits from 10 years to 15 years, more fully accommodating the transition from military to civilian life; Allowing benefits to be used for business courses, preparatory courses for exams, Allowing service members to repay federal student loans (up to $6000/year) Allowing service members to enroll for the benefits at any time while on active duty; Rewarding veterans for their service by eliminating their educational entitlements from being considered as income when applying for federal financial aid; Increasing On the Job Training benefit to 85 percent; Increasing the existing Dependent Educational Assistance by ten percent. “It’s important we ensure our current and former military members receive the educational benefits they deserve and have earned,” McMorris Rodgers said. “The Veterans Education Improvement Act helps our military members to afford the skyrocketing cost of tuition, makes it easier for them to enroll in the GI Bill program and provides more flexibility on how and when military members can use their educational benefits.” Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.24.2008	(Washington, D.C.) On Thursday, June 12th, 2008, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers will hold a hearing in Washington, D.C. about the role of hydropower in meeting current and future domestic energy needs. McMorris Rodgers is the Ranking Member of the Water and Power Subcommittee and asked for the hearing. The hearing is entitled “Hydropower: Providing 75% of America’s current renewable energy. Exploring its role as a continued source of clean, renewable energy for the future.” Facts on hydropower in the Northwest: Hydro-electric dams provide nearly 70 percent of Washington State’s electricity. It would take three nuclear, six coal-fired, or 14 gas fired power plants to provide capacity equal to the four lower Snake River dams. Our clean, renewable hydropower has kept the Northwest's "carbon footprint" at half that of the rest of the nation and removing the Snake River dams would add nearly 5 ½ million tons of CO2 to the atmosphere each year. “Hydroelectric dams across the West and especially in Washington State have provided us with an abundant supply of clean, affordable, and renewable energy,” McMorris Rodgers said. “At a time of growing energy demand, it makes no sense to throw this energy source away.” Leading energy experts across the Nation and Pacific Northwest will testify about why hydropower should be protected and promoted as a leading energy source. Witnesses include: Washington State Senator Bob Morton (R-Kettle Falls) Bob Johnson, Bureau of Reclamation Commissioner Scott Corwin, Public Power Council Executive Director Bruce Howard, Avista Utilities Director for Environmental Affairs Tim Culbertson, Grant County Public Utility District General Manager Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.24.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, energy industry experts from the Northwest and around the country testified in front of the Water and Power Subcommittee about the importance of hydropower in meeting our current and future domestic energy needs. Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers is the Ranking Republican on the Subcommittee and requested today’s hearing. “This was our first step toward giving the American people and those inside the Beltway much-needed information about hydropower,” Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers said. “Hydroelectric dams across the West and especially in Washington State provide us with clean, affordable, and renewable energy. In fact, dams provide nearly two-thirds of Washington State’s electricity. At a time of growing energy demand, it makes no sense to throw this clean energy source away.” “The assumption is that hydropower in the Northwest is tapped out. This is false,” said Washington State Senator Bob Morton (R-Kettle Falls). “With more water storage, we could trap the thousands of acre feet of water from the snow that is melting right now—and turn that into hydropower.” “Hydropower is the largest renewable electric resource in the U.S., providing approximately nine percent of U.S. total summer capacity,” Avista Corporation Director of Environmental Affairs Director Bruce Howard testified. “Any adverse environmental impact of hydropower on aquatic resources have been substantially reduced or eliminated through the relicensing process, new and innovative technology and the application of key environmental laws.” “My message today is simple: there is tremendous, untapped emissions-free hydroelectric generation potential in the U.S.” said Grant County PUD General Manager Tim Culbertson testified. “Too often hydropower is overlooked or taken for granted. This is an unfortunate oversight because hydropower, which does not generate any greenhouse gas emissions, is a domestic resource that deserves more attention as part of the nation’s renewable energy supply.
12.24.2008	(Washington, D.C.) This Sunday, as we celebrate Father’s Day, families across Eastern Washington and across the nation will recognize the role fathers play in our lives. But the yearly honor wouldn’t have been possible without a family from Spokane. Father’s Day was founded in 1910 by Sonora Smart Dodd, of Spokane. She founded the day in honor of her father, William Smart. William was a Civil War veteran who raised six children on his own after the death of his wife. On June 19, 1910, Spokane hosted the first celebration of Father’s Day. This week, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers sponsored legislation that recognizes the role fathers play in our lives and the role Sonora Smart Dodd played in creating Father’s Day. The resolution (H. Res. 1274) also recognizes the city of Spokane for hosting the first Father’s Day. In two years the city will host a 100th anniversary Father’s Day celebration. “It’s a small token of appreciation for the work fathers have done to make our families, communities and country the best in the world,” McMorris Rodgers said. “I thank my father for instilling in me the values of commitment to family, hard work and personal responsibility.” Gerry and Beverlee Numbers, longtime residents of Spokane’s East Central neighborhood, own in the Dodd household. They hope to have it restored in time for the 100th anniversary Father’s Day celebration. “She was not only the founder of Father’s Day, but involved with nearly all of the civic organizations in Spokane,” Gerry Numbers said. “She was an outstanding artist and poet. Our goal is to just bring the recognition to her for what she brought to the city of Spokane.” To watch a video the Congresswoman, her husband Brian and son Cole recorded commemorating Father’s Day, click here. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.24.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers released the following statement after the Government Accountability Office (GAO) upheld Boeing’s protest of the Air Force’s decision to award a contract to replace the air refueling tankers to a team of Northrop Grumman and European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company (EADS): “The GAO's decision validates concerns raised by Boeing about the acquisition process. As we move forward, we must ensure the procurement process is fair and transparent, we are building the best tankers possible for America, we are giving taxpayers the best value, and we are replacing the aging KC-135 tankers at Fairchild Air Force Base as soon as possible. “Boeing has a 75-year tradition of producing quality aerial refueling technologies in the United States. Everyone knows that the employees at the Boeing facilities in Everett, Washington and Wichita, Kansas put pride, integrity and professionalism into every plane they build. We need to ensure they are given a fair opportunity to continue building the best tanker right here in the United States.” Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers represents Fairchild Air Force Base, the largest employer in the Spokane area. Since coming to Congress in 2005, she has been working to expand and strengthen the role of Fairchild AFB. Included in that effort is her work to ensure the next generation of air refueling tankers is based at Fairchild AFB. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.23.2008	(Washington, D.C.) This week, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers voted for the emergency supplemental bill to keep funding our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan. H.R. 2642 also modernizes the Montgomery G.I. bill. The measure passed the house 268 to 155. The bill provides $162 billion for military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, which will fund the war into next year. The bill also increases college aid for military service members who enrolled after September 11, 2001. In addition to those education benefits, veterans returning from Iraq or Afghanistan can transfer those benefits to their spouses or children. “The men and women from Fairchild Air Force Base are a key enabler in fighting the Global War on Terror. It’s important we give them, and the rest of our military members, what they need to continue their success in Iraq and Afghanistan,” McMorris Rodgers said. “In addition, it’s one of my priorities to ensure our veterans and their families receive the kind of benefits they’ve earned. Providing them with what they need for an education after life in the military is a small tribute to their sacrifice and dedication.” Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.23.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers voted to improve Medicare coverage for Eastern Washington seniors and prevent a drastic cut to Medicare reimbursement rates for physicians. McMorris Rodgers voted for the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act (H.R. 6331). Among other things, the bill would: Prevent a 10.6% cut to Medicare physician reimbursements that were to take effect on June 30th, 2008; Provide a 1.1% increase in physician reimbursement rates for 2009; Provide incentives for doctors to use electronic prescription systems; Require Medicare to reimburse pharmacists for drugs prescribed within 14 days if pharmacists submit their claims electronically and within 30 days if submitted otherwise; Reexamines a competitive bidding process that would have prevented many small businesses from providing medical equipment to Medicare beneficiaries; Delay implementation of the new Average Manufacturing Price system, which may cause some pharmacists to be reimbursed 36% below cost to distribute generic Medicaid prescriptions; Allow Medicare to cover additional preventative services, and waive the deductible with respect to the initial physical exam that Medicare subscribers receive when they first enroll “I have heard from a number of health care providers throughout Eastern Washington who tell me it is harder to see Medicare patients because the government doesn’t pay its bills,” McMorris Rodgers said. “It is important we do more to fully reimburse doctors and pharmacists for the care and attention they give to our Medicare subscribers.” McMorris Rodgers is a co-founder of the Community Pharmacy Caucus which is working hard to preserve access to community pharmacies The loss of these pharmacies would leave many people, including a large number of seniors in rural areas of Eastern Washington, without a way to receive necessary medications. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.23.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers announced her support of a new plan to help bring relief to the skyrocketing energy costs. McMorris Rodgers is one of the original cosponsors of the Americans for American Energy Act. The Act is a comprehensive energy proposal aimed at reducing energy costs through increased energy production, conservation and innovation. “It’s time we begin saying yes to American energy,” McMorris Rodgers said. “We need to move away from foreign oil, produce more of our energy here at home and look for ways to conserve the energy we waste every day. It’s time we start meeting America’s energy needs with American resources, and this plan does that.” Among other things, the Americans for American Energy Act: Defines hydropower as a renewable resource; Increases the supply of affordable natural gas from America’s ocean resources by giving coastal states more freedom in whether to develop energy off shore; Lifts the ban against off shore energy exploration; Promotes safe and environmentally responsible exploration and development of ANWR; Develops America’s vast oil shale resources; Helps expedite the production of domestic coal-to-liquid fuel; Promotes renewable energy sources such as solar and wind energy; Promotes greater energy efficiency by increasing and extending personal and business efficiency tax credits and deductions; Adopts common sense regulatory relief and policy reforms to streamline and modernize policies that hinder energy exploration, production and transmission Since coming to Congress, McMorris Rodgers has had the opportunity to vote for American energy 24 times and she voted yes all 24 times. In addition, McMorris Rodgers serves as the highest ranking Republican on the Water and Power Subcommittee and recently chaired a hearing highlighting the role of hydropower in meeting the Northwest’s and nation’s energy needs. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.23.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers received the highest honors from one of America’s largest seniors’ groups. The 60 Plus Association awarded McMorris Rodgers the Guardian of Seniors’ Rights Award for her work in protecting Social Security. “We must protect social security benefits for our current retirees and near retirees,” McMorris Rodgers said. “Social Security must be put on a path toward fiscal sustainability so it can withstand economic and demographic changes. Any reform should adhere to the following criteria: benefits for retirees or near-retirees must not be changed, we must dedicate the entire surplus to Social Security, and Social Security payroll taxes should not be increased. McMorris Rodgers also received the Benjamin Franklin Award for supporting the repeal of the death tax. McMorris Rodgers has cosponsored legislation to repeal the tax. “The estate tax hurts future generations of Eastern Washington families,” McMorris Rodgers said. “Repealing the death tax will help farmers and small businesses in Eastern Washington. The death tax costs thousands of jobs each year. By repealing this unnecessary tax, jobs will be created and many small business owners will be able to add workers to their payrolls.” In addition to working to protect Social Security and repeal the death tax, McMorris Rodgers recently voted to improve Medicare coverage for Eastern Washington seniors and prevent a drastic cut to Medicare reimbursement rates for physicians. Contacts:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.23.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers released the following statement after Secretary of Defense Robert Gates announced the Undersecretary of Defense will oversee an expedited recompetition for new air refueling tankers. “I am pleased the Secretary of Defense realizes the importance of securing new air refueling tankers in a timely manner. It’s important we replace the aging KC-135 tankers at Fairchild Air Force Base as soon as possible. As I’ve said since the air refueling contract process began, we must ensure the procurement process is fair and transparent so we can be sure we are building the best tankers possible for America at the best value for taxpayers. The expedited rebidding will give Boeing a fair opportunity to compete for the chance to continue its tradition of producing quality air refueling tankers in the United States.” Today’s decision by Secretary Gates follows the General Accounting Office’s report that found serious flaws with the process the Air Force used to award to the contract to Northrop Grumman and European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company (EADS). Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers represents Fairchild Air Force Base, the largest employer in the Spokane area. Since coming to Congress in 2005, she has been working to protect and expand the role of Fairchild AFB. Included in that effort is her work to ensure the next generation of air refueling tankers is based at Fairchild AFB. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.23.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers urged Congress to lift its ban on offshore drilling—after President Bush lifted an executive ban on offshore drilling. Lifting the executive ban doesn’t mean exploration and drilling can begin. Congress must also agree to let exploration and drilling occur offshore. “Lifting the executive ban means we’re one step closer to tapping a new source of American energy,” McMorris Rodgers said. “I hope Congress will vote this week to begin exploring for more energy sources. I believe it’s through developing these new sources of American energy, encouraging innovation and conservation that we can lower gas and energy prices.” Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.23.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers disagreed with the President and voted once again to prevent cuts to Medicare physician and pharmacy reimbursements. McMorris Rodgers voted to override the Presidential veto of H.R. 6331, the Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act. The House overturned the veto by a vote of 383 to 41. H.R. 6331 will, among other things: Prevent a 10.6% cut to Medicare physician reimbursements that were to take effect on June 30th, 2008; Provide a 1.1% increase in physician reimbursement rates for 2009; Provide incentives for doctors to use electronic prescription systems; Require Medicare to reimburse pharmacists for drugs prescribed within 14 days if pharmacists submit their claims electronically and within 30 days if submitted otherwise; Delay implementation of the new Average Manufacturing Price system, which may cause some pharmacists to be reimbursed 36% below cost to distribute generic Medicaid prescriptions “I am glad Republicans and Democrats came together today to prevent more cuts to Medicare. Those cuts to physician reimbursements make it even harder for Eastern Washington seniors to find doctors who will accept Medicare patients,” McMorris Rodgers said. “Congress needs to find a meaningful, long-term solution to funding Medicare—not one that saves money by not accurately paying doctors and pharmacists for the services they provide.” McMorris Rodgers is a co-founder of the Community Pharmacy Caucus which is working hard to preserve access to community pharmacies The loss of these pharmacies would leave many people, including a large number of seniors in rural areas of Eastern Washington, without a way to receive necessary medications. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.23.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers and Congressman Doc Hastings today introduced a bill that would help improve air ambulance service – a key part of emergency health care in rural communities. “Northwest MedStar and other air ambulance services are a vital component of providing emergency health care access to rural communities across the Northwest,” McMorris Rodgers said. “This legislation makes it easier for air ambulance companies to buy the new aircraft that will ensure rural patients can have the lifesaving care they need.” “Our common sense bill recognizes the unique challenge of providing health care in rural communities,” said Hastings. “This is about making sure patients get the life-saving care they need as quickly as possible, and enhancing air ambulance service is a way to do just that. The legislation amends the tax code to allow tax-exempt bond financing for airplanes that exclusively provide emergency medical services. The current prohibition on using tax-exempt bonds to purchase airplanes was put in place to prevent the use of these bonds for frivolous purposes, such as corporate jets. Using tax-exempt bonds to purchase a corporate jet or an airplane for any purpose other than providing emergency health care would still be prohibited under the new bill. The proposal would make it more affordable for entities like Inland Northwest Health Services (INHS), a non-profit organization based out of Spokane, to purchase planes for emergency health care. INHS serves patients in Washington, Idaho, Oregon and Montana, and provided 2891 emergency medical flights in the Northwest last year. INHS currently has aircraft based in Richland, Spokane and Odessa – but there is a need to update the fleet by replacing aging planes. “We applaud Congressman Doc Hastings and Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers for sponsoring this legislation, which should greatly assist financing needed upgrades to our fleet of airplanes so that Northwest MedStar can provide more timely and safe air ambulance services throughout the rural areas of Eastern Washington, Eastern Oregon, Idaho, and Western Montana,” said Nancy Vorhees, Chief Operating Officer of Inland Northwest Health Services. Some of the hospitals routinely served by INHS in the 5th District include: Walla Walla’s St. Mary Medical Center, Walla Walla General Hospital, Pullman Regional Hospital, Whitman Hospital and Medical Center in Colfax, Deer Park Hospital, Colville’s Mount Carmel Hospital, Ferry County Memorial Hospital, and hospitals in Spokane. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.23.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers renewed her call for an “all of the above” approach to lowering the cost of energy. McMorris Rodgers cosponsored the American Energy Act, which will increase the supply of American-made energy, improve conservation and efficiency, and promote renewable and alternative energy technologies. This is the second bill in less than a month that McMorris Rodgers signed onto that aims to reduce energy costs through increased conservation, innovation and energy production. “The high cost of energy is the biggest concern right now for many people in Eastern Washington,” McMorris Rodgers said. “The American Energy Act will help lower energy costs. I urge the Democratic House leadership to schedule a vote on the bill before the August district work period. It’s time we start meeting American energy needs with American resources and no is not an answer.” The American Energy Act will: Increase the supply of American-made energy in environmentally sound ways by allowing exploration in the ocean and Arctic coastal plain, the development of oil shale and by streamlining the permitting process for new refineries; Improve energy conservation and efficiency by providing tax incentives for buying fuel-efficient vehicles, promoting the development of fuel efficient vehicles and providing tax incentives for businesses and homeowners who improve their energy efficiency; Promote alternative and renewable energy technology by establishing a renewable energy trust fund through revenues from ocean and Arctic coastal plain drilling, permanently extend the tax credit for alternative energy production and eliminating the barriers to emission-free nuclear power production. Since coming to Congress, McMorris Rodgers has voted for American energy 100% of the time. She is the ranking Republican on the Water and Power Subcommittee where she is working to promote hydropower as a clean, renewable and affordable source of energy and key component of meeting American energy needs with American resources. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.23.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers launched a new effort to help spread the word about the benefits of a renewable source of power prevalent in the Northwest: hydropower. McMorris Rodgers created the Congressional Hydropower Caucus to educate members of Congress and their staff about the many benefits of renewable, clean and emissions-free hydropower. “In the Pacific Northwest, we have benefited from clean, renewable hydropower,” McMorris Rodgers said. “In fact, dams provide nearly two-thirds of Washington State’s electricity. These dams have kept the Pacific Northwest's ‘carbon footprint’ at half that of the rest of the nation.” In addition to education, the goals of the Congressional Hydropower Caucus include advocating for protecting and expanding hydropower facilities and promoting hydropower as a clean, renewable, emissions-free and relatively low-cost electricity generation resource, especially in the context of energy supply, electric reliability and global climate change legislation and research. McMorris Rodgers is the Ranking Republican on the Water and Power Subcommittee, where she has been working to tell the good news story about hydropower and its role in meeting American energy needs with American resources. “At a time of growing energy demand, it makes no sense to throw this energy source away,” McMorris Rodgers said. “I am committed, as we move forward with the debate on global climate change, and how to reduce our carbon emissions, that hydropower be recognized for the important role it has played in the Pacific Northwest.” Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.23.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers and Congressman Doc Hastings commemorated the 75th Anniversary of Grand Coulee Dam. The House Resolution submitted today also recognizes Grand Coulee Dam’s critical role in the national and economic security of the United States and the contributions of hydroelectric power to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. “Grand Coulee Dam and the other hydroelectric dams on the Columbia and Snake River transformed our region from a dry desert, to one of the highest-producing agriculture regions in the country, as well as providing low-cost electricity on which our manufacturing and high tech industries have grown,” McMorris Rodgers said. “At a time of growing energy demand, it makes no sense to throw this clean energy source away. I am committed, as we move forward with the debate on global warming, that hydropower be recognized for the important role it plays in our markets.” “Our resolution pays tribute to those who built Grand Coulee Dam and to the workers who have kept it producing clean, renewable hydropower for so many years,” Hastings said. “Protecting our dams and expanding hydropower must be a priority as we aim to lower energy prices by producing more American-made power.” Other members of the Washington State Congressional delegation who’ve co-signed the resolution include Representatives Dave Reichert, Jim McDermott, Brian Baird, Norm Dicks, Adam Smith, Jay Inslee and Rick Larsen. Click here to read a copy of the resolution. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.23.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers’ top education and competitiveness priorities are one step closer to becoming law. McMorris Rodgers was named to the conference committee for the higher education reauthorization. The conferees met last night and agreed to the report which contains much of the legislation McMorris Rodgers has been fighting for. “As someone who is still paying off student loans, I understand how difficult it is for parents and students as they face dramatic increases in the cost of a college education,” McMorris Rodgers said. “As the first in my family to graduate from college, I know first hand the value and importance of a good education. It is the doorway to success and a critical piece to making our country more competitive in a global economy.” McMorris Rodgers represents eight colleges and universities across Eastern Washington. She serves on the Education and Labor Committee and is pleased the Higher Education Reauthorization and College Opportunity Act of 2008 reflects some of her top priorities. McMorris Rodgers has been a champion of increasing our nation’s competitiveness since coming to Congress, and the bill contains some of her provisions. It provides scholarships to U.S. students studying math, science, engineering and computer science, providing those students agree to work in that field for five years after graduation. The bill also creates a grant program to encourage innovative programs for teaching foreign language The bill allows adjunct content specialists in schools—something else McMorris Rodgers has long advocated. This allows school districts to recruit content specialists from among mid-career professionals with experience in math, science and critical foreign languages. “We need to allow qualified professionals to take time out of their career to enter the classroom and share their real world experience,” McMorris Rodgers said. In addition to increasing our nation’s competitiveness, the Higher Education Reauthorization and College Opportunity Act of 2008 will help make college more affordable for Eastern Washington students. The bill will provide funding for the Perkins Loan program, which provides approximately $8.7 million for Eastern Washington colleges and universities each year. The bill also helps crack down on fraudulent diploma mills. “We need to protect the integrity of our higher education system and the diplomas so many of us worked so hard to earn,” McMorris Rodgers said. In Spokane, purchasers of these phony degrees from a local diploma mill included more than 150 educational, military and government employees. Provisions in this bill increase transparency to give consumers more information and create a task force to develop legislation that will further crack down on fraudulent diploma mills. The U.S. Constitution requires that in order for a bill to be presented to the President for signature, it must pass both the House and Senate in the exact same form. The role of a Conference Committee is to work out differences between the House and Senate versions of the bill. As Ranking Member on the Water and Power Subcommittee, McMorris Rodgers served on the Conference Committee for the Farm Bill in April. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.23.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers spoke on the House floor, urging her colleagues to pass the Higher Education Opportunity Act of 2008. McMorris Rodgers is a member of the Education and Labor Committee and served as a conferee on the bill that helps increase our nation’s competitiveness and makes college more affordable. The bill reflects several of McMorris Rodgers’ priorities which she has been fighting for since elected to Congress. Among other things, the bill: Adopts McMorris Rodgers’ provisions to increase our nation’s competitiveness by including scholarships for students studying math, science, engineering and computer science as well as encouraging innovative programs for teaching foreign language; Contains McMorris Rodgers’ language that allows adjunct content specialists in schools, letting school districts recruit mid-career professionals with experience in math, science and critical foreign languages so those qualified professionals can take time out of their career, enter the classroom and share their real world experience; Helps make college more affordable for Eastern Washington students by funding for the Perkins Loan program, which provides approximately $8.7 million for Eastern Washington colleges and universities each year; Cracks down on fraudulent diploma mills by increasing transparency to give consumers more information allow the Secretary of Education to continue her efforts to shut down fraudulent diploma mills. Contact: Destry Henderson 202-225-2006 202-279-0418
12.23.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers asked the Democratic House Leadership not to adjourn for the August district work period until leaders allow a vote on exploring for more sources of American energy. So far, Democrats have refused to allow such a vote—only prolonging the high prices that Eastern Washington farmers and families pay at the pump. McMorris Rodgers believes it will take an “all of the above” approach to lowering energy prices. McMorris Rodgers supports increased conservation efforts, investment in renewable energy sources like wind and solar, as well as exploring for more sources of American energy. Earlier this month, McMorris Rodgers created the bipartisan Congressional Hydropower Caucus to promote hydropower as a renewable resource and important component of meeting America’s energy needs with American resources.
12.23.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers released the following statement after the Air Force officially reopened the bidding process for the next generation of air refueling tankers: “It’s important the bidding and selection process takes place quickly, smoothly and fairly in order to replace the aging KC-135 tankers at Fairchild Air Force Base as soon as possible. “As I’ve said since the air refueling contract process began, we must ensure the procurement process is fair and transparent so we can be sure we are building the best tankers possible for America at the best value for taxpayers.” Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers represents Fairchild Air Force Base, the largest employer in the Spokane area. Since coming to Congress in 2005, she has been working to protect and expand the role of Fairchild AFB. Included in that effort is her work to ensure the next generation of air refueling tankers is based at Fairchild AFB. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.23.2008	(Spokane, WA) With Congress set to consider a major transportation funding bill next year, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris wants to make sure Eastern Washington is well-positioned to have that funding bill reflect Eastern Washington’s regional priorities like the north-south corridor and U.S. 12 improvements. That is why today McMorris Rodgers is hosting a transportation roundtable at WSU Spokane. Eastern Washington business, government and transportation leaders will join McMorris Rodgers and Representative John Mica at WSU Spokane to discuss the future of transportation and infrastructure improvements in Eastern Washington. Representative Mica (R-FL) is the Ranking Republican on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee–the committee in the House that will determine where federal transportation dollars are spent. “I am pleased Representative Mica will be able to see first-hand the many important transportation projects underway in Eastern Washington,” McMorris Rodgers said. “Without a doubt, developing Eastern Washington’s transportation infrastructure is important in order to provide better conditions to improve the flow of traffic, make our roads safer, and transport products grown and made in our region.” Transportation RoundtableWednesday, August 13th2:30 p.m.WSU Academic CenterRoom 501600 North Riverpoint BoulevardSpokane, WA 99202 Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.23.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, President Bush signed into law the Higher Education Opportunity Act, which is the first comprehensive renewal of federal higher education programs in a decade. The Act contains several of McMorris Rodgers’ priorities which she has been fighting for since elected to Congress. Among other things, the bill: Adopts McMorris Rodgers’ provisions to increase our nation’s competitiveness by including scholarships for students studying math, science, engineering and computer science as well as encouraging innovative programs for teaching foreign language; Contains McMorris Rodgers’ language that allows adjunct content specialists in schools, letting school districts recruit mid-career professionals with experience in math, science and critical foreign languages so those qualified professionals can take time out of their career, enter the classroom and share their real world experience; Helps make college more affordable for Eastern Washington students by funding for the Perkins Loan program, which provides approximately $8.7 million for Eastern Washington colleges and universities each year; Cracks down on fraudulent diploma mills by increasing transparency to give consumers more information allow the Secretary of Education to continue her efforts to shut down fraudulent diploma mills. McMorris Rodgers serves on the Education and Labor Committee and was a member of the conference committee which reconciled the House and Senate versions of the higher education bill. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.23.2008	(Spokane, WA) The high energy costs affect everyone in Eastern Washington—from farmers to small businesses to seniors. “We are retired and on a very limited fixed income that means that now, we travel much less and we have to watch what we spend on groceries and other necessary items,” said Bannie Bowman of Walla Walla. That is why on Monday, August 18th, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers will host a Seniors Listening Session and Resource Fair to help seniors deal with the high cost of energy. Area partners including SNAP, Avista Utilities and representatives from the Social Security Administration will be on hand to connect Eastern Washington seniors with the help available for them. Topics to be covered include: Ways to conserve energy and cut costs Assistance for seniors struggling with the rising price of energy Information from government agencies and community organization on issues affecting today’s senior citizens “I have heard time and again how hard it is for everyone in Eastern Washington, especially seniors, to afford the high cost of energy” McMorris Rogers said. “I thank all of the assistance organizations participating in Monday’s event to help Eastern Washington seniors deal with high energy prices.” McMorris Rodgers favors an “all-of-the-above” energy policy. She is a co-sponsor of the American Energy Act which calls for increased conservation, investment in renewable energy like wind, solar and hydropower, as well as increased exploration of American energy. Seniors Listening Session and Resource Fair1:00 p.m.-3:00 p.m.Southside Seniors Activity Center3151 East 27th AvenueSpokane, Washington 99223 Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.23.2008	(Spokane, WA) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers announced new legislation that will help connect veterans, in a more streamlined manner, with the benefits they are eligible for. McMorris Rodgers is a sponsor of the “Providing Real Outreach to Vets (PRO-Vets) Act of 2008” (H.R. 6494). The legislation directs the Department of Defense and Department of Veterans Affairs to proactively determine and notify veterans who are retiring or separating from service about the benefits they are eligible for. The PRO-Vets Act will also streamline the application process by automatically transferring the eligible veteran’s necessary information from the Department of Defense to the Department of Veterans Affairs. “Our nation’s veterans should not have to struggle with difficult benefit eligibility and application processes,” McMorris Rodgers said. “The PRO-Vets Act of 2008 will help ensure veterans are aware of their benefits, make it easier to receive benefits and help enrich the lives of veterans and their families.” McMorris Rodgers is a member of the House Armed Services Committee. Along with making sure our veterans receive the benefits they’ve earned, McMorris Rodgers is working to expand and strengthen the role of Fairchild Air Force Base, including ensuring the next generation of air refueling tankers is based at Fairchild AFB. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.23.2008	(Spokane, WA) This week, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers and Senators Patty Murray and Maria Cantwell met with General Arthur Lichte, Commander, Air Mobility Command, to reinforce the important role Fairchild Air Force Base plays in our region’s economic security and our national security. Gen. Lichte oversees the air refueling tankers for the U.S. Air Force. The Congresswoman and Senators released the following statements following Tuesday’s meeting: “Strengthening and expanding Fairchild Air Force Base is one of my top priorities. Basing the next generation of air refueling tankers there and strengthening the partnership between the 141st Air National Guard and the 92nd Refueling Wing are integral parts of that,” McMorris Rodgers said. “I thank Gen. Lichte and Senators Murray and Cantwell for their support and their commitment to the future Fairchild AFB and the valuable role it plays in Eastern Washington and in protecting our nation.” “The growth and strength of Fairchild Air Force Base is not only important for Washington State, but it is critical to the safety of our entire country. The airmen and women at Fairchild are putting themselves in harm’s way to protect the freedoms we hold dear and they deserve the most advanced and safest equipment our nation can provide. Our Congressional delegation spoke with one voice as we reinforced the need to continue to invest in the future of the base and continue our progress together,” Senator Murray said. "Given its strategic location, Fairchild Air Force Base is a critical component for the safety and security of not only Washington state, but for the country as well," said Cantwell. "I was pleased to hear General Lichte say that he saw no deterrents to Fairchild, or its association, from being able to receive the new tankers. I will continue working with Senator Murray and Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers to protect the future of this integral base." This meeting is a follow up to a May meeting between McMorris Rodgers and Gen. Lichte. The two have worked together to strengthen the role of Fairchild AFB and enhance the relationship between the 92nd Air Refueling Wing and the 141st Air National Guard unit. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.23.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers released the following statement after the Defense Department announced today it will postpone until the next administration the current competition for the new air refueling tanker contract: “I am optimistic the Air Force will use this delay to fix problems found during the most recent bidding process. It is important we ensure the procurement process is fair and transparent so we can be sure we are building the best tankers possible for America at the best value for taxpayers. “It is also important for our Armed Forces that we replace the aging KC-135 tankers at Fairchild Air Force Base as soon as possible. Most of the KC-135’s were built in the 1950s and 1960s. Operating aircraft that will be 80 to 90 years old, before they will be retired, is simply unheard of in the civilian commercial industry.” Congresswoman McMorris Rodgers represents Fairchild Air Force Base, the largest employer in the Spokane area. Since coming to Congress in 2005, she has been working to protect and expand the role of Fairchild AFB. Included in that effort is her work to ensure the next generation of air refueling tankers is based at Fairchild AFB. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.23.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers released the following statement regarding the terrorist attacks on September 11th, 2001: “Today, the nation remembers the lives lost seven years ago in New York, at the Pentagon and in Pennsylvania. It’s important we never forget the innocent civilians and first responders who perished that day. “Today’s somber anniversary is a reminder of the continuing threat our country faces from terrorism. We should honor and thank the first responders who protect our communities and the brave men and women serving in the Armed Forces and government agencies who work tirelessly both here at home and around the world to prevent another terrorist attack against our country. Their efforts and sacrifices allow us to enjoy the day-to-day freedom and privileges of living in the United States. I would also like to recognize the Active Duty, Guard/Reserve, civilian employees and family members working at Fairchild AFB. The operational and training missions being accomplished by these great Americans and community heroes play a vital role in the Global War on Terrorism." Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.23.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers has long believed the earmark process needs to be reformed and now she is leading an effort to do just that. Today, McMorris Rodgers was named chair of the newly-formed Earmark Reform Committee. McMorris Rodgers will lead the committee as it relies on input from House Members and the public to develop an earmark reform proposal by February. “American families, farmers and small businesses must struggle to prioritize and balance their budgets, and it’s time for Congress to do the same,” McMorris Rodgers said. “Reforming the earmark process is one step toward returning fiscal discipline, transparency and accountability to Washington, D.C.” McMorris Rodgers adopted a self-imposed one year moratorium on earmarks last year, saying “I support earmarks, but not under the current system. Our tax dollars should be used wisely or not at all. Taxpayers should be assured that Congress provides the proper oversight in spending their dollars.” For more information about the Earmark Reform Committee, including giving the commission your comments, log onto mcmorris.house.gov. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.16.2008	(Washington, D.C.) This week, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers voted to expand rural veterans’ health care and increase veterans’ compensation. The legislation McMorris Rodgers supported is as follows: The Rural Veterans Access to Care Act (H.R. 1527) creates a pilot program that allows certain veterans who live long distances from Department of Veterans Affairs health care facilities to receive covered care locally from a non-VA health care provider. The Veterans’ Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2008 (S. 2617) requires the Department of Veterans Affairs to increase compensation for disabled veterans and their family on December 1st, 2008. The compensation will be increased the same percentage as the Social Security cost of living increase. “These pieces of legislation help ensure we give our veterans the benefits and care they’ve earned,” McMorris Rodgers said. “It’s important we do more to make sure our veterans and their families have the quality benefits they deserve.” McMorris Rodgers is a member of the House Armed Services Committee. Along with making sure our veterans receive the benefits they’ve earned, McMorris Rodgers is working to expand and strengthen the role of Fairchild Air Force Base, including ensuring the next generation of air refueling tankers is based at Fairchild AFB. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.16.2008	(Washington, D.C.) With the clock ticking before the House adjourns, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers urges House leaders to extend a key deduction to the federal income tax. McMorris Rodgers joined other members of Washington State’s Congressional delegation and representatives from other states without state income taxes to ask for an extension to the state sales tax deductions. You can read the letter they sent by clicking here. “It’s important taxpayers in Eastern Washington know they can make big purchases from local businesses and be able to deduct that sales tax from their federal income taxes,” McMorris Rodgers said. “Small businesses are the backbone of the Eastern Washington economy, and they will be harmed if people in Eastern Washington delay purchases because of unpredictable and unfair tax laws.” Taxpayers who live in states without a state income tax, like Washington, can deduct state sales tax if they itemize their tax returns. The sales tax deduction expired at the end of last year, and it must be extended or made permanent if the deductions are to continue. Since coming to Congress in 2005, McMorris Rodgers has worked to extend the state sales tax deduction and has voted every year on an extension for the deduction. In addition, McMorris Rodgers supports making the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts permanent, keeping the child tax credits and eliminating the marriage penalty as ways to foster long term economic stability and job growth. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.16.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers explains why the energy bill recently passed in the House will do little, if anything, to reduce the cost of energy that is hurting families and small businesses in Eastern Washington. Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers was among 189 Democrats and Republicans who did not support the bill for several reasons because, among other things, the bill: Does not contain any provisions allowing for exploration and development in ANWR or expanding nuclear power Prohibits exploration of known oil reserves off the coasts and in the Gulf of Mexico Restricts oil shale development Allows lengthy and expensive legal challenges that significantly delay energy exploration “If we were serious about reducing the high energy costs hurting Eastern Washington small businesses and families, Congress would give states incentives to use their natural resources in an environmentally-friendly way to create energy,” McMorris Rodgers said. “The ‘energy’ bill unfortunately does nothing to open new, economically viable, sources of American energy.” McMorris Rodgers offered an amendment to the bill, which would have classified hydropower as a renewable resource. Democrats, however, refused to allow amendments to the legislation which they introduced only 24 hours before voting on it. In addition, the bill contained several items unrelated to energy, including an authorization for $1.7 billion taxpayer subsidy for public transportation, when ridership is already at record levels. The bill also directed Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to develop loan products for “green” homes—less than a month after the federal government had to bail out Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. McMorris Rodgers supports the American Energy Act, an “all of the above” approach to lowering America’s energy costs through increased conservation, investment in renewable energy resources like hydropower, wind and solar power as well as increased energy exploration. She is the founder of the Congressional Hydropower Caucus which held its first briefing about the benefits of hydropower as a renewable resource on Tuesday. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.16.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Just like families across Eastern Washington and across the nation are tightening their belts in the face of high energy prices and uncertain economic times, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers believes the federal government needs to do the same thing. That is why McMorris Rodgers today introduced the Debt Repayment Instead of Pork Act of 2008 (H.R. 6967). The bill requires any amount of money spent on earmarks for a fiscal year must not exceed the estimated budget surplus for that fiscal year. “Our budget deficit has grown too big,” McMorris Rodgers said. “Every family has to balance their budget, and we expect the federal government to do the same. We need to dramatically change the way Congress spends money in order to make it more transparent and accountable.” Here are some numbers to consider: The FY 2009 federal budget is more than $3 trillion. That means the government spends about $9,800 per person in America. At the start of the 110th Congress, when Democrats took control, the national debt was $8.7 trillion. Today, the national debt is $9.7 trillion—an increase of $1 trillion in less than two years. How much is a trillion? If you laid one dollar bills end to end, you could create a chain from the Earth to the moon and back 200 times. It would take a military jet flying at the speed of sound, leaving a trail of one dollar bills, 14 years to run out. McMorris Rodgers is a leading advocate of reforming the government spending process. She adopted a one year moratorium on earmarks this year and supports a balanced budget amendment. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.16.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers released the following statement regarding Providence Health Care’s decision to drop the lawsuit against Empire Health Services. “I am thankful Providence Health Care dropped this lawsuit, which may have jeopardized Empire Health Services’ planned sale to Community Health Systems. If done in cooperation with our community, the sale of EHS to CHS will benefit our region and can benefit shared resources, like Inland Northwest Health Services. A two hospital system in Spokane will help maintain competition, continue to provide access to health care and bring additional investments in 21st century health care services. “I am optimistic CHS will uphold its pledge to invest at least $100 million over the next five years to allow for investment in health information technology and important infrastructure improvements across the existing EHS system. I believe CHS’ commitment will continue the progress Eastern Washington has made to move our health care system into the 21st century as a leader in health information technology. “I remain steadfast in ensuring access to quality and affordable health care that Eastern Washington has come to expect. I am committed to making sure this sale has a positive impact on our community, health care workers, providers, and those who are dependent on receiving the best care available.” Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.16.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today he U.S. House of Representatives officially recognized how hydropower can help reduce our greenhouse gas emissions. By a voice vote, the House approved Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers’ resolution commemorating the 75th Anniversary of Grand Coulee Dam (H.Res.1374). The legislation also recognized the contributions of hydroelectric power to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. “In the Pacific Northwest, we have benefited from clean, renewable hydropower,” McMorris Rodgers said. “In fact, dams provide nearly two-thirds of Washington State’s electricity. These dams have kept the Pacific Northwest's ‘carbon footprint’ at half that of the rest of the nation. “At a time of growing energy demand, it makes no sense to throw this clean energy source away. I am committed, as we move forward with the debate on global warming, that hydropower be recognized for the important role it plays in our markets.” All members of the Washington State Congressional delegation co-signed McMorris Rodgers’ resolution including Representatives Doc Hastings, Dave Reichert, Jim McDermott, Brian Baird, Norm Dicks, Adam Smith, Jay Inslee and Rick Larsen. McMorris Rodgers is a leading advocate of an “all of the above” approach to lowering America’s energy costs through increased conservation, investment in renewable energy resources like hydropower, wind and solar power as well as increased energy exploration. She is the founder of the Congressional Hydropower Caucus which held its first briefing about the benefits of hydropower as a renewable resource last week. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.16.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Tonight, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers released the following statement in response to President Bush’s address to the nation: “Right now there are a number of questions about the legislation’s price tag, regulatory and oversight powers, and whether this option is the best to help stabilize our financial markets. I am reserving judgment about the bill until key questions are answered and we have a chance to review the final legislation. Government intervention and the cost of the proposal runs counter to my belief in the free market and private sector solutions. By failing to act we may face severe consequences on our economy impacting our farmers and people’s ability to obtain loans including student loans, car loans, and home loans.” Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418 SOUND AVAILABLE:Soundbite 1TRT :26Verbatim: There’s been a number of meetings where we can ask questions, get questions answered and try to get our arms around the situation—how we got where we are and where we go from here. And I think it’s safe to say, members on both sides of the aisle, there are a lot of questions that still need to be answered.
12.16.2008	(Washington, D.C.) This week, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers unveiled legislation to create a demonstration project that would voluntarily monitor children’s heart health. The Kids with Healthy Hearts Act (H.R. 7052) provides grants to school districts to take the blood pressure readings of children in kindergarten through sixth grade. This demonstration project would then help identify children with hypertension or early signs of hypertension. This program is voluntary—parents must allow their children to participate. The Kids with Healthy Hearts Act also doesn’t create a massive new government program. Instead, it’s a small demonstration project to simply gain more information about the occurrence and seriousness of hypertension in children. That information can lead to necessary education, proper nutrition and adequate physical activity for children and parents. “As much as 30 percent of obese children in this country may have high blood pressure. That startling statistic means we need to take care of children now to help prevent heart disease later in life,” McMorris Rodgers said after submitting the bill yesterday. “Finding out our own health information is the first step toward making healthy decisions. We must begin to refocus our health sector on encouraging wellness and prevention, not just paying for expensive, acute care after people get sick.” McMorris Rodgers believes healthy living and prevention of health problems are key components of helping control the escalating medical costs in our country. She believes that by improving accountability for our own health decisions, as well as improving access, affordability, quality and choice in our health care system we can lower health care costs, and offer an alternative to a government-run, one-size-fits-all health care system for America. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.16.2008	(Washington, D.C.) When Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers and her husband Brian learned their son Cole had Down syndrome, the news was shocking. “The doctors gathered us in a room and gave us a long list of the medical and physical challenges Cole might face,” McMorris Rodgers said. That is why today McMorris Rodgers stood on the floor of the House of Representatives and asked her colleagues to support a bill that would help parents faced with a similar situation. (You can watch the floor statement here.) The Prenatally and Postnatally Diagnosed Conditions Awareness Act (S. 1810) will provide current and reliable information about the many services and support networks available for parents who either receive the news that their child may be born with a disability or their young child has been diagnosed with a disability. Specifically, the legislation: Provides for the establishment of a resource telephone hotline, a web site, and the expansion of information clearinghouses in disabilities; Provides for the expansion and development of national and local parent support programs; Establishes a national registry of parents willing to adopt children with these disabilities; Establishes awareness and education programs for health care providers who give parents the results of these tests. The House passed the bill by a voice vote and it now awaits the President’s signature. “I hope this bill will provide these parents with the information and support they so desperately need during a critical time,” McMorris Rodgers said. “It is so important for them to know that they are not alone and that others have struggled with their questions and answers are available.” Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.16.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers announced the U.S. Air Force has no plans to remove the rescue helicopters currently based at Fairchild Air Force Base (FAFB). The 36th RQF provides vital training for the survival school based at FAFB and plays a vital role in search and rescue operations in the Pacific Northwest. “I am very pleased the Air Force recognizes the important training and life saving resource the 36th RQF provides,” McMorris Rodgers said. “Now, the trainers and students at the Air Force survival school and first responders across the Pacific Northwest can be certain the helicopters will be available.” Today’s announcement is the result of several years of work for McMorris Rodgers and other members of Washington State’s Congressional delegation. In 2006, the Air Force made a decision to stop funding the helicopter unit, beginning in Fiscal Year 2008 (FY08) and remove them from Fairchild to save about $4 million a year. In May of 2007, recognizing the invaluable contributions the 36th RQF makes to the training at the survival school and to the local region, McMorris Rodgers led the fight to successfully add funding to the Air Force’s budget to sustain the unit in FY08 and FY09. This funding would allow additional time to evaluate the impacts of the Air Force’s decision. In December 2007, McMorris Rodgers and other members of the Washington State Congressional delegation asked the Air Force to provide a report on the 36th RQF’s search and rescue (SAR) capabilities in the Northwest. In May of 2008, the Air Force provided that report, but it lacked a clear explanation of the impact to military training and SAR capabilities in the region should the Air Force remove the 36th RQF from Fairchild AFB. In June of 2008, McMorris Rodgers asked the Air Force for additional information and clarification on the issue, keeping pressure on the Air Force to reevaluate the overall impacts of its decision. (Click here to read the May 2008 report and McMorris Rodgers’ follow-up letter by clicking here.) In September of 2008, the Air Force provided a written response to the additional request. Included in this response, the Air Force announced it restored funding to sustain the 36 RQF (currently through FY11) and has no current or future plans to remove the 36 RQF from Fairchild AFB. (You can read that report by clicking here.) “The need for the Air Force to make tough decisions on where to save money is understandable,” said McMorris Rodgers. “However, in this case I knew we needed to look at the bigger picture.” “I am glad the Air Force realizes the important role the 36th RQF plays in ensuring the men and women of the Armed Forces receive the very best survival training, but also the critical part the helicopters play in search and rescue missions across the Northwest,” said Rich Hadley, President and CEO of Greater Spokane Incorporated. “I applaud the efforts of Forward Fairchild, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers and other members of the Washington State Congressional delegation for working together to protect and expand the role of Fairchild Air Force Base.” McMorris Rodgers is a member of the House Armed Services Committee, where she is working to protect and expand the role of Fairchild Air Force Base, the largest employer in the Spokane area. In addition to protecting the 36th RQF at FAFB, she is working to ensure the next generation of air refueling tankers is based at Fairchild AFB. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418 SOUND AVAILABLE:Soundbite 1TRT: :41These helicopters are important to the Survival School and they have capabilities that other helicopters in our region don’t have. But, also, I’m not sure when they first made these recommendations that they took into consideration the important role these helicopters play in other areas, like the search and rescue, and just how many people have been rescued and how many times these helicopters are used. As these stories came forward and as we collected more data, I think they were making a more informed decision.
12.16.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers released the following statement regarding the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. “The financial crisis we are facing right now is greater than anyone could imagine. It is difficult for all of us to get our arms around the depth and complexity of this crisis. The decision on whether to support this package is one of the most difficult I have faced. I agree this bill is much better than the one we started with. It does more to protect the taxpayer, it does more to ensure Wall Street executives are held accountable, and it does more to increase oversight. “Despite the positive changes that were made, I voted against this bill because, on principle, I am not convinced it is the right approach and I believe there are still numerous questions about its feasibility. Committing 700 billion of our tax dollars requires a longer, more thoughtful debate. It requires a greater confidence that this bill will address the root problems, actually help our financial markets, and provide future assurances. The hardworking people of Eastern Washington are my primary priority and I continue to strive to ensure their best interests are protected.” Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.16.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers released the following statement regarding the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008. “Today’s bill the House considered contained a lot of positive benefits for Eastern Washington families, small businesses and schools. I am a strong supporter of the Alternative Minimum Tax patch, extending the state sales tax deduction and extending the Secure Rural Schools program that provides federal payments to school districts and counties that lost money due to federal lands under their jurisdiction. “However, those good and positive aspects of the bill that I’ve supported in the past weren’t enough to convince me to support the overall bill. I remain unconvinced the current $700 billion Wall Street rescue proposal is the right approach for the market and the best value for taxpayers. We’ve made a lot of good progress on the original bill. But I believe when faced with such great economic challenges, we owe it to the taxpayers to actually solve the problem for the long term. I am not convinced this bill addresses the root causes of the problem, one of those being the subprime lending situation. “I spent a lot of time listening before I made my decision—listening to Eastern Washington taxpayers who were being asked to foot the bill, listening to business owners on main street who were concerned about getting loans and what was happening to the credit market and listening to our local banks, many who didn’t take the risks those on Wall Street did. “Right now, our economy faces challenges that many of us haven’t seen before in our lives. Raising the FDIC insurance limit is a good start to help correct those problems and restore confidence in our lending intuitions. I believe the government needs to act, but that doesn’t mean spending your money on short term fixes. We all care about Eastern Washington and we all want to see our families, businesses, and communities prosper.” Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.16.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers announced she is running for Vice Chair of the House Republican Conference. The House Republican Conference represents all of the House Republicans and approves GOP Member committee assignments, manages leadership-driven floor debates and helps develop the House Republicans’ communications strategy. “It is my desire to help our conference advance the principles and values we hold dear,” McMorris Rodgers said in a letter to fellow House Republicans. “In rebuilding our party, we must broaden our appeal by sharpening our message, redefining our agenda, building coalitions, and inspiring a new generation of Republicans. We must communicate a vision for America’s future that inspires people and rallies them to our banner. As a new mother and the second-youngest woman serving in Congress, I bring a unique and important perspective. I provide valuable experience and a thoughtful voice as we identify the next steps.” Since coming to Congress in 2005, McMorris Rodgers has taken advantage of several leadership positions including chairing a task force to reform the National Environmental Policy Act, co-chairing the bipartisan Women’s Caucus and serving as Ranking Member of the Water and Power Subcommittee of Resources. McMorris Rodgers has used those opportunities to promote the collaborative and responsible use of our natural resources, American energy development, and the promotion of family values and personal responsibility. McMorris Rodgers looks forward to serving her third term representing Eastern Washington in Congress. Prior to being elected to Congress in 2005, she served ten years in the Washington State House of Representatives, including being the first woman to serve as House Minority Leader. McMorris Rodgers grew up on her family’s orchard in Kettle Falls and spent 13 years working there. She is married to retired Navy pilot Brian Rodgers and they are the proud parents of an 18-month-old son, Cole. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.16.2008	Tuesday, November 11, 2008 10:00 a.m.Spokane Veterans Day CelebrationSpokane Veterans Memorial Arena 11:00 a.m.Veterans Day PotluckVFW Post 51200 West MissionSpokane, WA 99201 Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.16.2008	When General Douglas MacArthur retired from the Army, he made these three little words not just famous, but alive. Duty- Honor- Country! Today is a day we say thank you to the men and women who not only live those words, but are prepared to die for them. To those men and women of our Armed Forces, I say thank you. America is the greatest country in the world and as we continue to make history, we must remember that much of our past, present and future is shaped by those men and women who serve in uniform. They possess the willingness to sacrifice their selves for the greater good of our country. I am continually reminded of the dedication of our veterans each day by my husband, Brian Rodgers, who was active duty in the Navy for 26 years. His service on the USS Enterprise, USS Ranger, USS Independence, and USS Carl Vinson are a continual reminder to me of the courage, strength and loyalty our men and women have for our country. Today, we remain a nation at war. While discussion and debate takes place and while we think about the future of our country and the world, we must remember that there are men and women serving overseas now. Our Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, and Marines are actively engaged in the conflict; we cannot forget them. That includes the men and women from Eastern Washington who make up the 81st Brigade and are spending this Veterans Day in Iraq. Our country must offer the best for our military each step of the way. It is our responsibility to provide our military with the most advanced training in the world and to make sure that they are fully trained and confident in their tasks before we give them a mission. Fairchild is critical to our national security and our economic security, that is why I am working with General Lichte, General Lowenberg, as well as leadership at the base to continue to bring together the associate relationship between the 141st and 92nd. We also need the next generation of air refueling tankers based at Fairchild Air Force Base and keep the 36th Rescue Flight helicopters based at Fairchild. We need to remember our military families. The return home for our service men and women can sometimes be difficult. We must make every effort to ease that transition and ensure peace of mind for our service-members and their families. That is why I introduced the PRO VETS bill to make the transition easier. It is important we do everything we can to support our current and past members of the Armed Forces. This Veterans Day, we pause to thank them for their patriotism and sacrifice, the key role they have played in the freedom and quality of life we enjoy today. I wish all of you the very best and sincerely thank you for your service and loyalty. God bless you all on this great Veterans Day! Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.16.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, members of the House Republican Conference selected Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers as Conference Vice Chair. The House Republican Conference represents all of the House Republicans and helps develop the House Republicans’ communications strategy. “As a new mother and second youngest woman Member of Congress, my unique perspective will help our party as we build coalitions, redefine our agenda and develop and spread our party’s message,” McMorris Rodgers said. “If we are to inspire people to join us and rally around our party’s vision for America, we as Republicans must begin using new technology to communicate our solutions for the budget and tax policy, energy, health care, education and the environment.” McMorris Rodgers joins Republican Leader John Boehner, Minority Whip Eric Cantor, Conference Chair Mike Pence, Conference Secretary John Carter, NRCC Chair Pete Sessions and Republican Policy Committee Chair Thaddeus McCotter as members of the House GOP leadership team. McMorris Rodgers looks forward to serving her third term representing Eastern Washington in Congress. Prior to being elected to Congress in 2005, she served ten years in the Washington State House of Representatives, including being the first woman to serve as House Minority Leader. McMorris Rodgers grew up on her family’s orchard in Kettle Falls and spent 13 years working there. She is married to retired Navy pilot Brian Rodgers and they are the proud parents of an 18-month-old son, Cole. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418 SOUND AVAILABLE:Soundbite 1TRT: :24Part of the reason I’m running for Vice Chair is I believe the next two to four years are critical for our party. And how we respond to the Obama administration and the Democrats, as well as how we define ourselves as Republicans, is going to determine how we, if we remain a minority party for a short period or a longer period of time. Soundbite 2TRT: :23Someone has proposed that we should become the “Grand New Party”, and I must admit, it’s appealing to me, because, I do think, we need to come up with a way of shedding some of the past bad behavior and some of the missed opportunities that we’ve had, and we also, as a party, must bring our message into the 21st century. Soundbite 3TRT: :18We must be doing more work to build those coalitions as conference, reaching out to women, the younger generation, minority groups, and just welcoming them to our party and letting them know that we care and that we want them to be a part of our vision for America.
12.16.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers applauded the Veterans Affairs’ long-awaited announcement of a $74.1 million dollar renovation at the Walla Walla VA Medical Center. “Eastern Washington veterans have waited a long time for this news,” McMorris Rodgers said. “I applaud the VA for moving forward on this project that will ensure veterans in Eastern Washington, Northern Idaho and Northeastern Oregon receive the kind of care they have earned from a modern facility.” McMorris Rodgers has long been an advocate of this project that will improve veterans’ outpatient and dental care. In February 2008, she asked Secretary of Veterans Affairs James Peake to put the project on the fast track. (Read the letter here.) Days later, McMorris Rodgers met with Secretary Peake at the Walla Walla VA Medical Center and stressed to him the importance of this project. In a follow up letter in March of 2008, McMorris Rodgers encouraged Secretary Peake to make the project, slated for a 2012 groundbreaking, a higher priority. (Read the letter here.) The FY09 project to modernize 65,000 square feet of medical space is scheduled to break ground in 2010. “I thank Secretary Peake for listening to my concerns about how important this project is for Eastern Washington veterans and acting on my request to move it forward,” McMorris Rodgers said. “The staff at the Walla Walla VA Medical Center already provides quality care and I look forward to seeing the even greater care they will deliver with this new, modern facility." Since coming to Congress in 2005, McMorris Rodgers has been a strong advocate of Eastern Washington veterans. In addition to repeatedly supporting increased education, health care, and benefits for veterans, McMorris Rodgers hosts quarterly veterans advisory meetings and recently introduced the PROVets Act, which helps veterans know what benefits are available to them and how they can apply for them. McMorris Rodgers is married to Brian Rodgers, a 26-year retired Navy pilot. Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
12.16.2008	(Washington, D.C.) Today, Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers released the following statement regarding the attacks in Mumbai: "My deepest thoughts and prayers are with the victims, their families and the people of India. These horrific and senseless series of attacks in Mumbai by heartless, barbaric thugs indicate how low terrorists will go in undermining democracy and our free society. During these dark and troubling times we must stand tall with our friends in India and continue to lead the way defeating aggression and winning the war on terror." Contact:Destry Henderson202-225-2006202-279-0418
